ROAD TRAFFIC ACT
[Enforcement Date Apr. 2, 2026] [Act No. 21246, Dec. 30, 2025, Partial Amendment]

National Police Agency (Traffic Planning Section (Legislation, Safety Signs, Protected Areas)) 02-3150-2251
National Police Agency (Traffic Safety Section (Safety, Enforcement, Children's School Bus)) 02-3150-2252
National Police Agency (Driver's License Section (Driver's License)) 02-3150-2253
National Police Agency (Advanced Traffic Section (Signals, Unmanned Enforcement Equipment)) 02-3150-2851
National Police Agency (Traffic Investigation Section (Traffic Accident Investigation)) 02-3150-2552

       Chapter 1 General Provisions
Article 1 (Purpose) The purpose of this Act is to ensure safe and smooth traffic flow by preventing and removing all dangers and obstacles to traffic occurring on roads.
Article 2 (Definitions) The terms used in this Act shall be defined as follows: <Amended by Act No. 11402, Mar. 21, 2012; Act No. 11690, Mar. 23, 2013; Act No. 12343, Jan. 28, 2014; Act No. 12844, Nov. 19, 2014; Act No. 14717, Mar. 21, 2017; Act No. 14839, Jul. 26, 2017; Act No. 14911, Oct. 24, 2017; Act No. 15530, Mar. 27, 2018; Act No. 17311, May 26, 2020; Act No. 17371, Jun. 9, 2020; Act No. 17657, Dec. 22, 2020; Act No. 18490, Oct. 19, 2021; Act No. 18706, Jan. 11, 2022; Act No. 19356, Apr. 18, 2023; Act No. 19782, Oct. 24, 2023; Act No. 21246, Dec. 30, 2025>
  1. The term "road" means any of the following:
    (a) A road under the Road Act;
    (b) A toll road under the Paid Road Act;
    (c) An agricultural or fishing village road under the Agricultural and Fishing Villages Road Improvement Act;
    (d) Any other place open to the public for the passage of an unspecified number of persons or vehicles/horses (hereinafter referred to as "vehicles and horses") where it is necessary to ensure safe and smooth traffic flow;
  2. The term "road for exclusive use of motor vehicles" means a road installed only for the passage of motor vehicles;
  3. The term "expressway" means a road designated to be used only for high-speed operation of motor vehicles;
  4. The term "roadway" means a portion of a road installed for the passage of all vehicles, the boundaries of which are marked by using curb lines (referring to lines connecting stones, etc., separating roadways and sidewalks; the same shall apply hereinafter), safety signs, or other similar artificial structures;
  5. The term "centerline" means a line marked with yellow solid lines, yellow dotted lines, or other safety signs on a road, or a facility such as a median strip or fence, to clearly distinguish the directions of traffic of vehicles and horses: Provided, That where reversible lanes are installed pursuant to the latter part of Article 14 (1), it refers to the yellow dotted line on the leftmost side in the direction of travel as indicated by a traffic signal;
  6. The term "lane" means a portion of a roadway divided by lane lines so that vehicles and horses can travel in a single row along a designated part of the road;
  7. The term "lane line" means a line marking the boundary between lanes with safety signs;
  7-2. The term "tramway" means a road or lane under each subparagraph of Article 18-2 (1) of the Urban Railroad Act, installed by laying tracks on a road and marking boundaries with safety signs or artificial structures;
  8. The term "bicycle path" means a road under each subparagraph of Article 3 of the Promotion of Bicycle Use Act, installed for the passage of bicycles and personal mobility devices, the boundaries of which are marked with safety signs, fences for preventing danger, or other similar artificial structures;
  9. The term "bicycle crossing" means a part of a road marked with safety signs so that bicycles and personal mobility devices can cross a general road;
  10. The term "sidewalk" means a part of a road marked with curb lines, safety signs, or other similar artificial structures to be used for the passage of pedestrians (including persons traveling by using equipment or devices prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety, such as strollers, wheelchairs for walking assistance, and walkers for the elderly and the infirm, and outdoor mobile robots under subparagraph 21-3; the same shall apply hereinafter);
  11. The term "road edge zone" means a part of the edge of a road marked with safety signs, etc., to ensure the safety of pedestrians on a road where sidewalks and roadways are not separated;
  12. The term "crosswalk" means a part of a road marked with safety signs so that pedestrians can cross the road;
  13. The term "intersection" means a part where two or more roads (referring to roadways on roads where sidewalks and roadways are separated), such as a crossroad, T-junction, etc., intersect;
  13-2. The term "rotary" means a circular road among intersections where vehicles and horses travel counterclockwise around a circular traffic island (referring to island-shaped facilities installed at intersections or branch points of roadways, etc., to ensure safe and smooth traffic processing of vehicles and horses or safety of pedestrians crossing the road);
  14. The term "safety zone" means a part of a road marked with safety signs or other similar artificial structures for the safety of pedestrians crossing the road or vehicles and horses passing through;
  15. The term "traffic signal" means a device operated by human or electric power to display signals such as "proceed," "stop," "change direction," or "caution" by using letters, symbols, or lights in road traffic;
  16. The term "safety sign" means a signboard indicating caution, regulation, instruction, etc., necessary for traffic safety, or symbols, letters, or lines marked on the surface of a road;
  17. The term "vehicles and horses" means vehicles and draft animals under the following:
    (a) The term "vehicle" means any of the following:
      1) Motor vehicles;
      2) Construction machinery;
      3) Motorized bicycles;
      4) Bicycles;
      5) Those operated on a road by human or animal power or other power: Provided, That equipment or devices prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety, such as those operated by using railroad tracks or installed lines, strollers, wheelchairs for walking assistance, walkers for the elderly and the infirm, and outdoor mobile robots under subparagraph 21-3, shall be excluded;
    (b) The term "draft animals" means livestock used for traffic or transportation;
  17-2. The term "tram" means a tram under subparagraph 2 of Article 2 of the Urban Railroad Act, which is operated by using tracks on a road;
  18. The term "motor vehicle" means a vehicle operated by using a motor without using railroad tracks or installed lines (including a towed motor vehicle as part of the motor vehicle), which falls under any of the following:
    (a) Any of the following motor vehicles under Article 3 of the Motor Vehicle Management Act: Provided, That motorized bicycles shall be excluded;
      1) Passenger cars;
      2) Vans;
      3) Trucks;
      4) Special vehicles;
      5) Two-wheeled motor vehicles;
    (b) Construction machinery under the proviso to Article 26 (1) of the Construction Machinery Management Act;
  18-2. The term "autonomous driving system" means an autonomous driving system under Article 2 (1) 2 of the Act on the Promotion and Support of the Commercialization of Autonomous Vehicles. In such cases, the types thereof may be subdivided into fully autonomous driving systems, partial autonomous driving systems, etc., as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety;
  18-3. The term "autonomous vehicle" means an autonomous vehicle under subparagraph 1-3 of Article 2 of the Motor Vehicle Management Act, which is equipped with an autonomous driving system;
  19. The term "motorized bicycle" means any of the following vehicles:
    (a) A two-wheeled motor vehicle among those under Article 3 of the Motor Vehicle Management Act, which has a displacement of 125 cubic centimeters or less (or a maximum rated output of 11 kilowatts or less if powered by electricity);
    (b) Any other vehicle equipped with a motor with a displacement of 125 cubic centimeters or less (or a maximum rated output of 11 kilowatts or less if powered by electricity), excluding electric bicycles under subparagraph 1-2 of Article 2 of the Promotion of Bicycle Use Act and outdoor mobile robots under subparagraph 21-3;
  19-2. The term "personal mobility device" means a motorized bicycle under item (b) of subparagraph 19, the motor of which does not operate when running at a speed of 25 kilometers per hour or higher and the weight of which is less than 30 kilograms, as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety;
  20. The term "bicycle" means a bicycle or electric bicycle under subparagraphs 1 and 1-2 of Article 2 of the Promotion of Bicycle Use Act;
  21. The term "motor vehicles, etc." means motor vehicles and motorized bicycles;
  21-2. The term "bicycles, etc." means bicycles and personal mobility devices;
  21-3. The term "outdoor mobile robot" means an intelligent robot under subparagraph 1 of Article 2 of the Intelligent Robots Development and Distribution Promotion Act, as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety;
  22. The term "emergency vehicle" means any of the following motor vehicles which are being used for their original emergency purposes:
    (a) Fire trucks;
    (b) Ambulances;
    (c) Blood supply vehicles;
    (d) Other motor vehicles prescribed by Presidential Decree;
  23. The term "children's school bus" means a motor vehicle used for the commute, etc. of children (referring to persons under 13 years of age; the same shall apply hereinafter) in any of the following facilities whose educational targets are children (excluding movement for educational activities that occur non-periodically, such as field experience learning), and a motor vehicle for transportation business operated by targeting children as passengers after obtaining a limited license for passenger vehicle transportation business under Article 4 (3) of the Passenger Transport Service Act:
    (a) Kindergartens and childcare promotion centers under the Early Childhood Education Act, elementary schools, special schools, alternative schools, and schools for foreigners under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act;
    (b) Daycare centers under the Infant Care Act;
    (c) Private teaching institutes and tutoring facilities established under the Act on the Establishment and Operation of Private Teaching Institutes and Extracurricular Lessons;
    (d) Sports facilities established under the Installation and Utilization of Sports Facilities Act;
    (e) Child welfare facilities under the Child Welfare Act (excluding child protection agencies);
    (f) Youth training facilities under the Youth Activity Promotion Act;
    (g) Welfare facilities for persons with disabilities under the Act on Welfare of Persons with Disabilities (excluding vocational rehabilitation facilities for persons with disabilities);
    (h) Public libraries under the Libraries Act;
    (i) Metropolitan/Provincial lifelong education promotion centers and Si/Gun/Gu lifelong learning centers under the Lifelong Education Act;
    (j) Social welfare facilities and social welfare centers under the Social Welfare Services Act;
  24. The term "parking" means a driver keeping a vehicle in a continuous stationary state for waiting for passengers, loading cargo, vehicle breakdown, or other reasons, or leaving the vehicle such that he/she cannot immediately drive it;
  25. The term "stopping" means a driver stopping a vehicle for not more than five minutes, which refers to a stationary state other than parking;
  26. The term "driving" means using a vehicle/horse or tram on a road (including places other than roads in the case of Article 27 (6) 3, Articles 44, 45, 54 (1), 148, 148-2, and subparagraph 10 of Article 156) according to its original method of use (including steering or using an autonomous driving system);
  27. The term "novice driver" means a person for whom two years have not passed since the date he/she first obtained a driver's license (referring to the date he/she obtained a driver's license again after his/her driver's license was revoked before two years passed since the date he/she first obtained it). In such cases, if a person who has only obtained a motorized bicycle license obtains a driver's license other than a motorized bicycle license, he/she shall be deemed to have first obtained a driver's license;
  28. The term "driving slowly" means a driver proceeding at such a slow speed that he/she can immediately stop a vehicle or tram;
  29. The term "overtaking" means a driver of a vehicle passing by the side of another vehicle ahead and getting ahead of it;
  30. The term "temporary stop" means a driver of a vehicle or tram completely stopping the wheels of the vehicle or tram temporarily;
  31. The term "road for exclusive use of pedestrians" means a road marked with safety signs or other similar artificial structures to be used only by pedestrians;
  31-2. The term "pedestrian-priority road" means a pedestrian-priority road under subparagraph 3 of Article 2 of the Act on the Promotion of Walking Safety and Convenience;
  32. The term "specialized driver training school" means a facility for educating knowledge and skills regarding driving of motor vehicles, etc., excluding the following facilities:
    (a) Facilities installed by a school under the statutes related to education for the training of its students and faculty;
    (b) Facilities of a workplace, etc., for the training of its employees;
    (c) Simulated driving practice facilities using computer devices;
    (d) Among facilities installed by local governments, etc., for driver training of persons with physical disabilities, those recognized by the Commissioner of a Metropolitan/Provincial Police Agency;
    (e) Facilities providing driver training without receiving compensation;
    (f) Facilities providing driver training in places other than roads to enable persons who have obtained a driver's license to experience various driving situations;
  33. The term "exemplary driver" means a person who has received a badge for an accident-free driver or a driver of merit pursuant to Article 146, or a person who has been engaged in driving business vehicles for at least two years and has no record of causing a traffic accident, and who is selected as prescribed by the Commissioner General of the National Police Agency and is engaged in traffic safety volunteer activities;
  34. The term "alcohol-ignition interlock" means a device that prevents a motor vehicle, etc. from starting when a person tries to drive it in a state of intoxication, as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety;
  35. The term "drugs" means any of the following substances:
    (a) Narcotics, psychotropic drugs, and cannabis under subparagraph 1 of Article 2 of the Narcotics Control Act;
    (b) Hallucinogenic substances under Article 22 (1) of the Chemical Substances Control Act.
  [Wholly Amended by Act No. 10790, Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 3 (Installation and Management of Traffic Signals, etc.)
(1) The Special Metropolitan City Mayor, a Metropolitan City Mayor, a Special Self-Governing Province Governor, or the Mayor/County Governor (excluding the County Governor of a Metropolitan City; hereinafter referred to as "Mayor, etc.") shall install and manage traffic signals and safety signs (hereinafter referred to as "traffic safety facilities") if deemed necessary to prevent danger on roads and ensure the safety and smooth flow of traffic: Provided, That on toll roads under Article 6 of the Toll Road Act, the road management authority shall install and manage traffic safety facilities according to the instructions of the Mayor, etc.
(2) When installing and managing traffic safety facilities pursuant to paragraph (1), the Mayor, etc. and the road management authority shall ensure they comply with the installation and management standards for traffic safety facilities under Article 4. <Newly Inserted on Jun. 12, 2018>
(3) A Province (Do) may subsidize all or part of the costs incurred by a Mayor or County Governor in installing and managing traffic safety facilities pursuant to paragraph (1) to the relevant City (Si) or County (Gun). <Amended on Jun. 12, 2018>
(4) If it is necessary to remove traffic safety facilities installed on a road or restore them to their original state for reasons prescribed by Presidential Decree, the Mayor, etc. may require the person who caused such reasons to bear all or part of the costs incurred for the relevant work. <Amended on Jun. 12, 2018>
(5) Necessary matters concerning the criteria for imposing and refunding the charges under paragraph (4) shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Amended on Jun. 12, 2018>
(6) If a person liable to pay a charge pursuant to paragraph (4) fails to pay it within the specified period, the Mayor, etc. shall collect it in the same manner as local tax arrears are disposed of. <Amended on Jun. 12, 2018>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 4 (Types and Installation/Management Standards of Traffic Safety Facilities, etc.)
(1) The types of traffic safety facilities, standards for their installation and management, and other necessary matters concerning traffic safety facilities shall be prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Jun. 12, 2018>
(2) The installation and management standards for traffic safety facilities under paragraph (1) shall be determined so that traffic safety facilities are clearly visible to drivers and pedestrians regardless of day or night, weather conditions, etc. <Newly Inserted on Jun. 12, 2018>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]
[Title Amended on Jun. 12, 2018]

Article 4-2 (Installation and Management of Automated Traffic Enforcement Equipment)
(1) A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency, a Chief of a Police Station, or a Mayor, etc. may install and manage automated traffic enforcement equipment to record and prove the facts of violations of this Act. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
(2) Standards for installation and management of automated traffic enforcement equipment and other necessary matters shall be prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Newly Inserted on Jan. 3, 2023>
(3) The provisions of Article 3 (4) through (6) shall apply mutatis mutandis to the removal or restoration of automated traffic enforcement equipment. In such cases, "traffic safety facilities" shall be construed as "automated traffic enforcement equipment." <Amended on Jun. 12, 2018; Jan. 3, 2023>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 5 (Duty to Comply with Signals or Directions)
(1) Pedestrians and drivers of vehicles, horses, or trams traveling on a road shall comply with the signals or directions indicated by traffic safety facilities and the signals or directions given by any of the following persons: <Amended on Jul. 24, 2015; Mar. 27, 2018; Dec. 22, 2020>
1. Police officers (including conscripted police officers; the same shall apply hereinafter) and self-governing police officers of Jeju Special Self-Governing Province (hereinafter referred to as "self-governing police officers") who are directing traffic;
2. Persons prescribed by Presidential Decree who assist police officers (including self-governing police officers; the same shall apply hereinafter) (hereinafter referred to as "police assistants").
(2) If a signal or direction indicated by traffic safety facilities under paragraph (1) differs from a signal or direction given by a police officer or police assistant (hereinafter referred to as "police officer, etc.") directing traffic, pedestrians and drivers of vehicles, horses, or trams shall comply with the signal or direction given by the police officer, etc. <Amended on Mar. 27, 2018; Dec. 22, 2020>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 5-2 (Federation of Exemplary Drivers)
A federation of exemplary drivers may be established to promote mutual cooperation among exemplary drivers and to efficiently operate traffic safety volunteer activities.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Mar. 21, 2012]

Article 5-3 (Support for Exemplary Drivers, etc.)
(1) The State may, within the scope of its budget, provide exemplary drivers with uniforms and equipment necessary for performing duties such as traffic direction, as prescribed by Presidential Decree.
(2) The State may purchase insurance to compensate an exemplary driver for injuries or death sustained while performing duties such as traffic direction.
(3) Local governments may, within the scope of their budgets, provide subsidies necessary for the projects of the federation of exemplary drivers established pursuant to Article 5-2. <Newly Inserted on Jan. 27, 2016>
[This Article Newly Inserted on Mar. 21, 2012]

Article 6 (Prohibition and Restriction of Passage)
(1) If deemed necessary to prevent danger on roads and ensure the safety and smooth flow of traffic, a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may prohibit or restrict the passage of pedestrians, vehicles, horses, or trams by designating specific sections. In such cases, the Commissioner of the City/Do Provincial Police Agency shall notify the administrative authority of the road where the passage of pedestrians, vehicles, horses, or trams has been prohibited or restricted. <Amended on Mar. 27, 2018; Dec. 22, 2020>
(2) If deemed necessary to prevent danger on roads and ensure the safety and smooth flow of traffic, a Chief of a Police Station may prohibit or restrict the passage of pedestrians, vehicles, horses, or trams first, and then determine the targets, sections, and periods of prohibition or restriction in consultation with the road management authority. <Amended on Mar. 27, 2018>
(3) When a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency or a Chief of a Police Station intends to impose a prohibition or restriction pursuant to paragraph (1) or (2), he/she shall publicly announce the fact as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Dec. 22, 2020>
(4) If it is necessary to take urgent measures to prevent danger on a road due to damage to the road, occurrence of a fire, or other circumstances, a police officer may temporarily prohibit or restrict the passage of pedestrians, vehicles, horses, or trams within the necessary scope. <Amended on Mar. 27, 2018>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 7 (Measures to Alleviate Traffic Congestion)
When there is a distinct concern of traffic congestion due to a backlog of pedestrians, vehicles, horses, or trams, a police officer may take necessary measures to alleviate such congestion. <Amended on Mar. 27, 2018>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 7-2 (Senior Driver Mark)
(1) For the safe driving of senior drivers and the prevention of traffic accidents, the State or a local government may produce and distribute marks indicating that a vehicle is driven by a senior driver (hereinafter referred to as "senior driver mark"), as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety.
(2) A senior driver may drive with a senior driver mark attached to the vehicle so that drivers of other vehicles can easily identify it.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Jan. 3, 2023]

CHAPTER II METHODS OF PASSAGE FOR PEDESTRIANS

Article 8 (Passage of Pedestrians)
(1) Pedestrians shall always walk on the sidewalk on roads where the sidewalk and the driveway are separated: Provided, That this shall not apply when crossing a driveway, when passage on the sidewalk is prohibited due to road construction, etc., or in other unavoidable circumstances.
(2) On roads where the sidewalk and the driveway are not separated and a center line is marked (including roads divided by lanes in case of one-way traffic), pedestrians shall walk on the edge of the road or the road edge zone. <Amended on Oct. 19, 2021>
(3) Pedestrians may walk on all parts of the road in places falling under any of the following: In such cases, a pedestrian shall not intentionally obstruct the progress of vehicles or horses: <Amended on Jan. 11, 2022>
1. Roads where the sidewalk and the driveway are not separated and no center line is marked (limited to roads not divided by lanes in case of one-way traffic; the same shall apply hereinafter);
2. Pedestrian priority roads.
(4) As a rule, pedestrians shall walk on the right side of the sidewalk. <Amended on Oct. 19, 2021>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 8-2 (Duties of Outdoor Mobile Robot Operators)
(1) A person who operates an outdoor mobile robot (including a person who manipulates and manages an outdoor mobile robot; hereinafter referred to as "outdoor mobile robot operator") shall accurately manipulate the operating device and other devices of the outdoor mobile robot.
(2) An outdoor mobile robot operator shall not operate the operating device of an outdoor mobile robot in a manner that causes danger or obstruction to vehicles, trams, or other persons, depending on the traffic situation of the road and the structure and performance of the outdoor mobile robot.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Apr. 18, 2023]

Article 9 (Passage of Processions, etc.)
(1) Columns of students and other persons or processions prescribed by Presidential Decree as being likely to impede the passage of pedestrians (hereinafter referred to as "processions, etc.") may walk on the driveway notwithstanding the main sentence of Article 8 (1). In such cases, processions, etc. shall walk on the right side of the driveway.
(2) Processions, etc. may walk in the center of a road when marching through city streets for socially important events.
(3) If deemed necessary to prevent danger on a road and ensure the safety and smooth flow of traffic, a police officer may designate sections for processions, etc. and take necessary measures, such as ordering the processions, etc. to walk close to the right side of the road or driveway (referring to the right side of the part excluding the bicycle path on a driveway where a bicycle path is installed) in such sections.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 10 (Crossing of Roads)
(1) For the safety of pedestrians crossing a road, a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may install a crosswalk according to the standards prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Dec. 22, 2020>
(2) On roads where a crosswalk under paragraph (1), an underground passage, a pedestrian overpass, or other road crossing facilities are installed, pedestrians shall cross the road using such facilities: Provided, That a person with a physical disability who cannot use road crossing facilities such as an underground passage or a pedestrian overpass may cross the road without using such facilities in a manner that does not obstruct other traffic.
(3) On roads where no crosswalk under paragraph (1) is installed, pedestrians shall cross the road by the shortest distance.
(4) A pedestrian shall not cross a road immediately in front of or behind a vehicle or tram: Provided, That this shall not apply when crossing at a crosswalk or in accordance with a signal or direction given by a traffic signal or a police officer, etc. <Amended on Mar. 27, 2018>
(5) A pedestrian shall not cross a road in a part of the road where crossing is prohibited by safety signs, etc.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 11 (Protection of Children, etc.)
(1) A person responsible for the protection of a child shall not let the child play on a road with frequent traffic, and a person responsible for the protection of an infant (referring to a person under six years of age; the same shall apply hereinafter) shall not let the infant walk alone on a road with frequent traffic. <Amended on Dec. 30, 2014>
(2) A person responsible for the protection of a blind person (including any person equivalent thereto; the same shall apply hereinafter) shall take necessary measures, such as ensuring the blind person carries a white cane or is accompanied by a dog prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety as a dog that guides blind persons (hereinafter referred to as "guide dog for the disabled") when walking on a road. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Aug. 11, 2015; Jul. 26, 2017>
(3) A person responsible for the protection of a child shall ensure that the child wears personal protective equipment prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety for the child's safety when the child rides a bicycle or highly dangerous moving play equipment prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety on a road. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017>
(4) A person responsible for the protection of a child shall not let the child drive a personal mobility device on a road. <Newly Inserted on Jun. 9, 2020>
(5) When a person with a physical disability requests help or is deemed to need help to pass or cross a road, a police officer shall take necessary measures so that the person can safely pass or cross the road. <Amended on Jun. 9, 2020>
(6) When a police officer discovers any of the following persons, he/she shall take appropriate measures for their safety: <Amended on Dec. 30, 2014; Aug. 11, 2015; Jun. 9, 2020>
1. A child playing on a road with frequent traffic;
2. An infant walking on a road without a person responsible for protection;
3. A blind person walking without taking necessary measures, such as not carrying a white cane or not being accompanied by a guide dog for the disabled;
4. An elderly person (referring to a person 65 years of age or older; the same shall apply hereinafter) who experiences difficulty in walking at a crosswalk or on a road with frequent traffic.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 12 (Designation, Cancellation, and Management of Child Protection Zones)
(1) If deemed necessary to protect children from the danger of traffic accidents, a Mayor, etc. may designate certain sections of roads around any of the following facilities or places as child protection zones and restrict the speed of vehicles, etc. and trams to 30 kilometers per hour or less: <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Jan. 28, 2014; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 24, 2015; Jul. 26, 2017; Mar. 27, 2018; Oct. 19, 2021; Apr. 18, 2023>
1. Kindergartens under Article 2 of the Early Childhood Education Act, elementary schools or special schools under Articles 38 and 55 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act;
2. Childcare centers prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety among childcare centers under Article 10 of the Child Care Act;
3. Private teaching institutes prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety among private teaching institutes under Article 2 of the Act on the Establishment and Operation of Private Teaching Institutes and Extracurricular Lessons;
4. Foreign schools or alternative schools under Article 60-2 or 60-3 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, alternative education institutions under subparagraph 2 of Article 2 of the Act on Alternative Education Institutions, international schools under Article 223 of the Special Act on the Establishment of Jeju Special Self-Governing Province and the Development of Free International City, and foreign educational institutions with kindergarten or elementary school curricula among foreign educational institutions under subparagraph 2 of Article 2 of the Special Act on the Establishment and Operation of Foreign Educational Institutions in Free Economic Zones and Jeju Free International City;
5. Other facilities or places prescribed by municipal ordinance as places frequently visited by children.
(2) Necessary matters concerning the procedures and criteria for the designation and cancellation of child protection zones under paragraph (1) shall be prescribed by Joint Ordinance of the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of the Interior and Safety, and the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Apr. 18, 2023>
(3) A driver of a vehicle, horse, or tram shall comply with the measures under paragraph (1) in child protection zones and drive while paying attention to the safety of children. <Amended on Mar. 27, 2018>
(4) A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency, a Chief of a Police Station, or a Mayor, etc. shall preferentially install automated traffic enforcement equipment under Article 4-2 in places prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety among roads in child protection zones to crack down on acts of violating paragraph (3), etc. <Newly Inserted on Dec. 24, 2019; Dec. 22, 2020>
(5) For the safety of children, a Mayor, etc. shall preferentially install the following facilities or equipment in child protection zones designated pursuant to paragraph (1), or request the relevant road management authority to install such facilities or equipment: <Newly Inserted on Dec. 24, 2019; Apr. 18, 2023; Jan. 30, 2024>
1. Traffic signals for crosswalks on arterial roads closest to the main entrance of facilities designated as child protection zones;
2. Safety signs concerning speed limits, crosswalks, starting points, and endpoints;
3. Speed bumps among accessories of roads under subparagraph 2 of Article 2 of the Road Act and facilities to prevent vehicles and horses from skidding;
3-2. Protective fences;
4. Other facilities or equipment prescribed by Joint Ordinance of the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of the Interior and Safety, and the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]
[Title Amended on Apr. 18, 2023]

Article 12-2 (Designation, Cancellation, and Management of Protection Zones for Seniors and Persons with Disabilities)
(1) If deemed necessary to protect seniors or persons with disabilities from the danger of traffic accidents, a Mayor, etc. may designate certain sections of roads around facilities or places under subparagraphs 1 through 3 and 3-2 as protection zones for seniors, and certain sections of roads around facilities under subparagraph 4 as protection zones for persons with disabilities, and take necessary measures such as restricting or prohibiting the passage of vehicles, horses, and trams: <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Mar. 27, 2018; Oct. 19, 2021; Jan. 3, 2023>
1. Welfare facilities for the aged under Article 31 of the Welfare of the Aged Act;
2. Natural parks under subparagraph 1 of Article 2 of the Natural Parks Act or urban parks under subparagraph 3 of Article 2 of the Act on Urban Parks and Green Areas;
3. Public sports facilities under Article 6 of the Installation and Utilization of Sports Facilities Act;
3-2. Other facilities or places prescribed by municipal ordinance as places frequently visited by seniors;
4. Welfare facilities for the disabled under Article 58 of the Welfare of the Disabled Act.
(2) Necessary matters concerning the procedures and criteria for the designation and cancellation of protection zones for seniors or protection zones for persons with disabilities under paragraph (1) shall be prescribed by Joint Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety, the Ministry of Health and Welfare, and the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Apr. 18, 2023>
(3) A driver of a vehicle, horse, or tram shall comply with the measures under paragraph (1) in protection zones for seniors or protection zones for persons with disabilities and drive while paying attention to the safety of seniors or persons with disabilities. <Amended on Mar. 27, 2018>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]
[Title Amended on Apr. 18, 2023]

Article 12-3 (Establishment and Operation of Integrated Management System for Protection Zones, etc.)
(1) The Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency shall establish and operate an integrated management system for protection zones to collect, manage, and disclose information on child protection zones under Article 12 and protection zones for seniors and persons with disabilities under Article 12-2.
(2) The Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency may request a Mayor, etc. to provide information necessary for the operation of the integrated management system for protection zones established pursuant to paragraph (1), and the Mayor, etc. who receives such a request shall comply with it unless there is a justifiable reason.
(3) Necessary matters concerning the establishment and operation of the integrated management system for protection zones and requests for information under paragraphs (1) and (2) shall be prescribed by Joint Ordinance of the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of the Interior and Safety, the Ministry of Health and Welfare, and the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Jan. 3, 2023]

Article 12-4 (Fact-finding Surveys on Protection Zones, etc.)
(1) A Mayor, etc. shall conduct a fact-finding survey on the traffic environment, such as the status of traffic accidents that occurred in child protection zones under Article 12 and protection zones for seniors and persons with disabilities under Article 12-2, at least once a year, and reflect the results in the designation, cancellation, and management of protection zones.
(2) Necessary matters concerning the targets and methods of fact-finding surveys under paragraph (1) shall be prescribed by Joint Ordinance of the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of the Interior and Safety, the Ministry of Health and Welfare, and the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport.
(3) A Mayor, etc. may entrust part of the fact-finding survey work under paragraph (1) to the Korea Road Traffic Authority (hereinafter referred to as the "Korea Road Traffic Authority") under the Korea Road Traffic Authority Act or a traffic-related professional institution, as prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Amended on Jan. 30, 2024>
[This Article Newly Inserted on Apr. 18, 2023]

CHAPTER III METHODS OF PASSAGE FOR VEHICLES, HORSES, AND TRAMS, ETC.

Article 13 (Passage of Vehicles and Horses)
(1) A driver of a vehicle or horse shall walk on the driveway on roads where the sidewalk and the driveway are separated: Provided, That when entering or leaving a place other than a road, he/she may cross the sidewalk.
(2) In cases of the proviso of paragraph (1), a driver of a vehicle or horse shall temporarily stop immediately before crossing the sidewalk, check the left and right sides, etc., and then cross so as not to obstruct the passage of pedestrians.
(3) A driver of a vehicle or horse shall walk on the right side of the center (referring to the center line where a center line is marked; the same shall apply hereinafter) of a road (referring to the driveway on a road where the sidewalk and the driveway are separated).
(4) Notwithstanding paragraph (3), a driver of a vehicle or horse may walk on the center or the left side of a road in any of the following cases: <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
1. Where the road is one-way;
2. Where the right side of the road cannot be passed due to damage to the road, road construction, or other obstacles;
3. Where he/she intends to overtake another vehicle on a road where the width of the right side is less than 6 meters: Provided, That this shall not apply in any of the following cases:
(a) Where the left side of the road cannot be identified;
(b) Where there is a concern of obstructing traffic in the opposite direction;
(c) Where overtaking is prohibited or restricted by safety signs, etc.;
4. Where the width of the right side of the road is not sufficient for the passage of vehicles or horses;
5. Where the Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency deems it necessary to prevent traffic danger at a bend of a steep slope and designates the section and the method of passage, and he/she passes according to the designation.
(5) A driver of a vehicle or horse shall not enter a place where entry is prohibited by safety signs, such as a safety zone.
(6) A driver of a vehicle or horse (excluding bicycles, etc.) shall not pass through a bicycle path or a road edge zone except in places where passage is permitted by safety signs: Provided, That this shall not apply to bicycle priority roads under subparagraph 4 of Article 3 of the Act on the Promotion of Bicycle Use. <Amended on Jan. 28, 2014; Jun. 9, 2020>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 13-2 (Special Cases for Methods of Passage for Bicycles, etc.)
(1) A driver of a bicycle, etc. shall walk on a bicycle path (including an exclusive lane installed so that only bicycles can pass pursuant to Article 15 (1); the same shall apply hereinafter in this Article) in a place where a separate bicycle path is provided. <Amended on Jun. 9, 2020>
(2) A driver of a bicycle, etc. shall walk close to the right edge of a road in a place where no bicycle path is installed. <Amended on Jun. 9, 2020>
(3) A driver of a bicycle, etc. may walk on the road edge zone (excluding sections where the passage of bicycles, etc. is prohibited by safety signs). In such cases, the driver of a bicycle, etc. shall slow down or temporarily stop when he/she obstructs the passage of pedestrians. <Amended on Jun. 9, 2020>
(4) Notwithstanding paragraph (1) and Article 13 (1), a driver of a bicycle, etc. may walk on the sidewalk in any of the following cases. In such cases, the driver of a bicycle, etc. shall slow down from the center of the sidewalk toward the driveway or toward the place designated by safety signs, and shall temporarily stop when he/she obstructs the passage of pedestrians: <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Mar. 27, 2018; Jun. 9, 2020>
1. Where a child, an elderly person, or a person with a physical disability prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety drives a bicycle: Provided, That this shall not apply where he/she drives without turning off the motor of an electric bicycle under subparagraph 1-2 of Article 2 of the Act on the Promotion of Bicycle Use;
2. Where the passage of bicycles, etc. is permitted by safety signs;
3. Where the road cannot be passed due to damage to the road, road construction, or other obstacles.
(5) A driver of a bicycle, etc. shall not walk on the driveway in parallel with two or more bicycles, except where permitted by safety signs. <Amended on Jun. 9, 2020>
(6) When a driver of a bicycle, etc. crosses a road using a crosswalk, he/she shall get off the bicycle, etc. and walk while pulling or carrying the bicycle, etc. <Amended on Jun. 9, 2020>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]
[Title Amended on Jun. 9, 2020]

Article 14 (Installation of Lanes, etc.)
(1) If necessary to ensure the smooth flow of vehicles and horses, a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may install lanes prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety on a road. In such cases, on roads where the amount of traffic in both directions differs distinctly according to the time of day, the Commissioner of the City/Do Provincial Police Agency may install reversible lanes indicating the direction of the lane by traffic signals so that the number of lanes can be expanded toward the side with more traffic. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Dec. 22, 2020>
(2) On a road where lanes are installed, a driver of a vehicle or horse shall pass along the lanes unless otherwise specifically provided for in this Act or an order under this Act: Provided, That where the Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency has separately designated the method of passage, he/she shall pass according to that method. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
(3) Where a person intends to pass on a road where lanes are installed, and there is a concern that the width of the vehicle is wider than the width of the lane prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety, thereby impeding the safety or smooth flow of traffic, the driver of the vehicle shall not pass on the road: Provided, That this shall not apply where he/she has obtained permission from the Chief of the Police Station having jurisdiction over the starting point of the vehicle, as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017>
(4) If a vehicle for which permission is intended to be obtained under the proviso of paragraph (3) corresponds to a vehicle for which operation permission must be obtained under the proviso of Article 77 (1) of the Road Act, the Chief of the Police Station shall consult in advance with the management authority of the road where the vehicle intends to pass, as prescribed by Presidential Decree, and a vehicle that has obtained permission from the Chief of the Police Station through such consultation shall be deemed to have obtained operation permission under the proviso of Article 77 (1) of the Road Act. <Newly Inserted on Dec. 30, 2014>
(5) A driver of a vehicle or horse shall not change the course of the vehicle or horse in a place where changing the course is specifically prohibited by safety signs: Provided, That this shall not apply where there are obstacles due to damage to the road, road construction, etc. <Amended on Dec. 30, 2014>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 15 (Installation of Exclusive Lanes)
(1) If particularly necessary to ensure smooth traffic, a Mayor, etc. may install exclusive lanes (referring to lanes through which only vehicles designated according to the type of vehicle or the number of passengers can pass; the same shall apply hereinafter) on a road in consultation with the Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency or the Chief of a Police Station. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
(2) The types of exclusive lanes, vehicles that can pass through exclusive lanes, and other necessary matters for the operation of exclusive lanes shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.
(3) No vehicle other than a vehicle that can pass through an exclusive lane pursuant to paragraph (2) shall pass through the exclusive lane: Provided, That this shall not apply in cases prescribed by Presidential Decree, such as where an emergency vehicle is being operated for its original urgent purpose.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 15-2 (Installation of Bicycle Crossing Paths, etc.)
(1) For the safety of bicycle drivers crossing a road, a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may install a bicycle crossing path according to the criteria prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Dec. 22, 2020>
(2) When a driver of a bicycle, etc. crosses a road where a separate bicycle crossing path is provided while riding a bicycle, etc., he/she shall use the bicycle crossing path. <Amended on Jun. 9, 2020>
(3) When a bicycle, etc. is passing through a bicycle crossing path, a driver of a vehicle or horse shall temporarily stop in front of the bicycle crossing path (referring to the stop line where a stop line is installed) so as not to obstruct or endanger the crossing of the bicycle, etc. <Amended on Jun. 9, 2020>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 16 (Installation of Exclusive Tracks for Trams, etc.)
(1) When a Mayor, etc. intends to install exclusive tracks or exclusive lanes for trams to facilitate traffic, he/she shall consult with the Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency on the following matters before approving the urban railway business plan under Article 7 (1) of the Urban Railroad Act. The same shall also apply where he/she intends to change the business plan: <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
1. Method and section of installation of trams;
2. Installation of traffic safety facilities within exclusive tracks for trams;
3. Other matters concerning the management of exclusive tracks for trams.

(2) A driver of a tram shall pass through the exclusive tracks or exclusive lanes for trams under paragraph (1), and a driver of a vehicle or horse shall not pass through the exclusive tracks or exclusive lanes for trams except in the following cases:
1. Where he/she crosses the track site to turn left, turn right, cross, or make a U-turn;
2. Where entry is unavoidable for the repair of roads, traffic safety facilities, accessories of roads, etc.;
3. Where an emergency vehicle is being operated for its original urgent purpose in an exclusive lane for trams.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Mar. 27, 2018]

Article 17 (Speed of Motor Vehicles, etc. and Trams)
(1) The road passage speed of motor vehicles, etc. (excluding personal mobility devices; the same shall apply hereinafter in this Article) and trams shall be prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Mar. 27, 2018; Jun. 9, 2020>
(2) If deemed necessary to prevent danger on roads and ensure the safety and smooth flow of traffic, the Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency or a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may restrict the speed determined pursuant to paragraph (1) by designating zones or sections according to the following classifications: <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
1. Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency: Expressways;
2. Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency: Roads other than expressways.
(3) A driver of a motor vehicle, etc. or a tram shall not drive faster than the maximum speed or slower than the minimum speed under paragraphs (1) and (2): Provided, That this shall not apply where he/she is forced to drive slower than the minimum speed due to traffic congestion or other unavoidable reasons. <Amended on Mar. 27, 2018>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]
[Title Amended on Mar. 27, 2018]

Article 18 (Prohibition of Crossing, etc.)
(1) A driver of a vehicle or horse shall not cross, make a U-turn, or reverse on a road if there is a concern of obstructing the normal passage of pedestrians or other vehicles or horses.
(2) If deemed particularly necessary to prevent danger on roads and ensure the safety and smooth flow of traffic, a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may prohibit the crossing, U-turning, or reversing of vehicles or horses by designating sections of the road. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
(3) When a driver of a vehicle or horse enters a road from a building on the roadside, a parking lot, etc., he/she shall first stop and then slow down while checking whether it is safe.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 19 (Securing Safe Distance, etc.)
(1) When following another vehicle going in the same direction, a driver of any vehicle shall secure a necessary distance from the vehicle ahead so as to avoid collision in case the vehicle ahead stops suddenly.
(2) A driver of a motor vehicle, etc. shall pay attention to a driver of a bicycle, etc. going in the same direction and shall secure a necessary distance to avoid collision with the bicycle, etc. when passing by it. <Amended on Aug. 11, 2015; Jun. 9, 2020>
(3) When a driver of any vehicle intends to change the course of the vehicle, he/she shall not change the course if there is a concern of obstructing the normal passage of another vehicle coming in the direction he/she intends to change.
(4) A driver of any vehicle shall not apply sudden brakes, such as stopping the vehicle suddenly or reducing the speed, except to prevent danger or in other unavoidable cases.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 20 (Duty to Yield Course)
(1) A driver of any vehicle (excluding emergency vehicles) shall yield the course by moving to the right edge of the road if he/she intends to travel at a slower speed than the vehicle following from behind: Provided, That this shall not apply to roads where passage classifications are installed.
(2) When vehicles other than emergency vehicles proceed facing each other on a narrow road, the vehicle according to the following classifications shall yield the course by moving to the right edge of the road:
1. Where vehicles proceed facing each other on a narrow sloping road, the vehicle going up;
2. Where a vehicle carrying people or loaded with goods and a vehicle without passengers or goods proceed facing each other on a narrow road other than a sloping road, the vehicle without passengers or goods.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 21 (Overtaking Methods, etc.)
(1) A driver of any vehicle shall pass on the left side of the vehicle ahead to overtake it.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), a driver of a bicycle, etc. may pass on the right side of the vehicle ahead to overtake another vehicle that is slowing down or stopped. In such cases, the driver of the bicycle, etc. shall slow down or temporarily stop if necessary while paying attention to the safety of people getting on or off the stopped vehicle. <Amended on Jun. 9, 2020>
(3) In cases of paragraphs (1) and (2), a driver of any vehicle intending to overtake shall pay sufficient attention to traffic in the opposite direction and traffic in front of the vehicle ahead, and shall overtake at a safe speed and in a safe manner by using direction indicators, lamps, or horns according to the speed and course of the vehicle ahead and other road conditions.
(4) When there is a vehicle overtaking in the manner under paragraphs (1) through (3) or Article 60 (2), a driver of any vehicle shall not obstruct the overtaking by increasing speed to compete or by blocking the front of that vehicle.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 22 (Times and Places where Overtaking is Prohibited)
(1) A driver of any vehicle shall not overtake the vehicle ahead in any of the following cases:
1. Where another vehicle is traveling side by side with the vehicle ahead on the left side of the vehicle ahead;
2. Where the vehicle ahead is overtaking or intends to overtake another vehicle.
(2) A driver of any vehicle shall not overtake any of the following other vehicles:
1. A vehicle that is stopped or slowing down in accordance with this Act or an order under this Act;
2. A vehicle that is stopped or slowing down in accordance with the direction of a police officer;
3. A vehicle that is stopped or slowing down to prevent danger.
(3) A driver of any vehicle shall not overtake another vehicle in any of the following places: <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
1. Intersections;
2. Inside tunnels;
3. On bridges;
4. Places designated by safety signs as places where a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency deems it necessary to prevent danger on roads and ensure the safety and smooth flow of traffic, such as a bend in a road, the vicinity of the top of a slope, or a downhill of a steep slope.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 23 (Prohibition of Cutting In)
A driver of any vehicle shall not cut in front of another vehicle falling under any of the subparagraphs of Article 22 (2).
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 24 (Passing through Railroad Crossings)
(1) When a driver of any vehicle or tram intends to pass through a railroad crossing (hereinafter referred to as "crossing"), he/she shall temporarily stop in front of the crossing and pass after checking if it is safe: Provided, That he/she may pass without stopping if he/she complies with signals indicated by traffic signals, etc. <Amended on Mar. 27, 2018>
(2) A driver of any vehicle or tram shall not enter a crossing while the barrier of the crossing is lowered or is being lowered, or while the alarm of the crossing is sounding. <Amended on Mar. 27, 2018>
(3) If a driver of any vehicle or tram becomes unable to operate the vehicle or tram inside a crossing due to a breakdown or other reasons while passing through the crossing, he/she shall immediately evacuate the passengers and notify a railroad official or a police officer of the fact by using emergency signals, etc. or by other methods. <Amended on Mar. 27, 2018>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 25 (Methods of Passing through Intersections)
(1) When a driver of any vehicle intends to turn right at an intersection, he/she shall turn right while slowing down at the right edge of the road in advance. In such cases, the driver of the vehicle turning right shall pay attention to pedestrians or bicycles, etc. that are stopped or proceeding according to signals. <Amended on Jun. 9, 2020>
(2) When a driver of any vehicle intends to turn left at an intersection, he/she shall turn left using the inner side of the center of the intersection while slowing down along the center line of the road in advance: Provided, That in places designated by a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency as being particularly necessary according to the situation of the intersection, he/she may pass through the outer side of the center of the intersection. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (2), when a driver of a bicycle, etc. intends to turn left at an intersection, he/she shall turn left using the edge of the intersection while slowing down close to the right edge of the road in advance. <Amended on Jun. 9, 2020>
(4) Where there is a vehicle giving a signal by hand, direction indicator, or lamp to turn right or left pursuant to paragraphs (1) through (3), the driver of the vehicle following behind shall not obstruct the progress of the vehicle ahead that has given the signal.
(5) When a driver of any vehicle or tram intends to enter an intersection where traffic is being directed by traffic signals, he/she shall not enter the intersection if there is a concern that he/she will be stopped in the intersection (referring to the part beyond the stop line where a stop line is installed) according to the situation of the vehicle or tram ahead, thereby obstructing the passage of other vehicles or trams. <Amended on Mar. 27, 2018>
(6) When a driver of any vehicle intends to enter an intersection where traffic is not being directed and where safety signs indicating temporary stop or yielding are installed, he/she shall temporarily stop or yield so as not to obstruct the progress of other vehicles.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 25-2 (Methods of Passing through Roundabouts)
(1) A driver of any vehicle shall pass in a counter-clockwise direction at a roundabout.
(2) When a driver of any vehicle intends to enter a roundabout, he/she shall slow down or temporarily stop, and shall yield the course to other vehicles already proceeding in the roundabout.
(3) Where there is a vehicle giving a signal by hand, direction indicator, or lamp to pass through a roundabout pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2), the driver of the vehicle following behind shall not obstruct the progress of the vehicle ahead that has given the signal.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Jan. 11, 2022]

Article 26 (Yielding at Intersections where Traffic is Not Directed)
(1) When a driver of a vehicle intends to enter an intersection where traffic is not being directed, he/she shall yield the course to other vehicles already in the intersection.
(2) When a driver of a vehicle intends to enter an intersection where traffic is not being directed, he/she shall slow down if the width of the road he/she is traveling on is narrower than the width of the intersecting road, and shall yield the course to other vehicles intending to enter the intersection from the wider road.
(3) A driver of a vehicle intending to enter an intersection where traffic is not being directed simultaneously with another vehicle shall yield the course to the vehicle on the road to the right.
(4) When a driver of a vehicle intends to turn left at an intersection where traffic is not being directed, he/she shall yield the course to other vehicles intending to go straight or turn right at the intersection.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 27 (Protection of Pedestrians)
(1) When a pedestrian (including a driver of a bicycle, etc. who gets off the bicycle, etc. and walks while pulling or carrying it pursuant to Article 13-2 (6)) is passing through or intends to pass through a crosswalk, a driver of any vehicle or tram shall temporarily stop in front of the crosswalk (referring to the stop line where a stop line is installed) so as not to obstruct or endanger the crossing of the pedestrian. <Amended on Mar. 27, 2018; Jun. 9, 2020; Jan. 11, 2022>
(2) When a driver of any vehicle or tram intends to turn left or right at an intersection where traffic is being directed, he/she shall not obstruct the passage of pedestrians crossing the road according to signals or directions of traffic signals or police officers, etc. <Amended on Mar. 27, 2018>
(3) A driver of any vehicle shall not obstruct the passage of pedestrians crossing an intersection where traffic is not being directed or a road in its vicinity.
(4) A driver of any vehicle shall slow down at a safe distance when a pedestrian is in a safety zone installed on a road or when passing by a pedestrian on a narrow road where no lanes are installed.
(5) When a pedestrian is crossing a road where no crosswalk is installed pursuant to Article 10 (3), a driver of any vehicle or tram shall secure a safe distance and temporarily stop so that the pedestrian can safely cross the road. <Amended on Mar. 27, 2018>
(6) When passing by a pedestrian in any of the following places, a driver of any vehicle shall slow down at a safe distance, and when he/she obstructs the passage of pedestrians, he/she shall slow down or temporarily stop so that the pedestrian can safely pass: <Amended on Jan. 11, 2022>
1. Roads where the sidewalk and the driveway are not separated and no center line is marked;
2. Pedestrian priority roads;
3. Places other than roads.
(7) A driver of any vehicle or tram shall temporarily stop in front of a crosswalk where no traffic signal is installed (referring to the stop line where a stop line is installed) among crosswalks installed in a child protection zone under Article 12 (1), regardless of whether a pedestrian is crossing. <Newly Inserted on Jan. 11, 2022>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 28 (Installation of Pedestrian-Only Roads)
(1) If deemed particularly necessary to protect the passage of pedestrians, a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency or a Chief of a Police Station may install a pedestrian-only road on a road. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
(2) A driver of a vehicle, horse, or tram shall not pass through a pedestrian-only road under paragraph (1): Provided, That a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency or a Chief of a Police Station may permit the passage of vehicles or horses on a pedestrian-only road if deemed particularly necessary. <Amended on Mar. 27, 2018; Dec. 22, 2020>
(3) A driver of a vehicle or horse whose passage on a pedestrian-only road is permitted pursuant to the proviso of paragraph (2) shall operate the vehicle or horse at a walking speed of a pedestrian or temporarily stop so as not to endanger pedestrians or obstruct the passage of pedestrians.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 28-2 (Pedestrian Priority Roads)
If deemed necessary to protect pedestrians on a pedestrian priority road, a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency or a Chief of a Police Station may restrict the speed of vehicles and horses to 20 kilometers per hour or less.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Jan. 11, 2022]

Article 29 (Priority Passage of Emergency Vehicles)
(1) Notwithstanding Article 13 (3), an emergency vehicle may pass through the center or the left side of a road in urgent and unavoidable cases.
(2) Notwithstanding cases where it must stop in accordance with this Act or an order under this Act, an emergency vehicle may not stop in urgent and unavoidable cases.
(3) In cases of paragraphs (1) and (2), a driver of an emergency vehicle shall pass while paying special attention to traffic safety.
(4) When an emergency vehicle approaches an intersection or its vicinity, a driver of a vehicle, horse, or tram shall avoid the intersection and temporarily stop. <Amended on Mar. 27, 2018>
(5) When an emergency vehicle approaches a place other than the place under paragraph (4), a driver of any vehicle or tram shall yield the course so that the emergency vehicle can pass preferentially. <Amended on Dec. 2, 2016; Mar. 27, 2018>
(6) A driver of a vehicle under each subparagraph of Article 2 (22) shall not turn on a warning light installed in accordance with the Motor Vehicle Management Act or operate a siren when the vehicle is not being operated for its original urgent purpose: Provided, That this shall not apply where patrols, drills, etc. for the prevention of crimes, fires, etc. are conducted as prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Newly Inserted on Jan. 27, 2016>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 30 (Special Cases for Emergency Vehicles)
The following matters shall not apply to emergency vehicles: Provided, That matters under subparagraphs 4 through 12 shall not apply only to vehicles under Article 2 (22) (a) through (c) among emergency vehicles and police vehicles prescribed by Presidential Decree: <Amended on Jan. 12, 2021>
1. Speed limits for motor vehicles, etc. under Article 17: Provided, That where the speed is limited for emergency vehicles pursuant to Article 17, the provisions of the same Article shall apply;
2. Prohibition of overtaking under Article 22;
3. Prohibition of cutting in under Article 23;
4. Signal violations under Article 5;
5. Sidewalk intrusion under Article 13 (1);
6. Center line intrusion under Article 13 (3);
7. Prohibition of crossing, etc. under Article 18;
8. Securing safe distance, etc. under Article 19;
9. Overtaking methods, etc. under Article 21 (1);
10. Prohibition of stopping and parking under Article 32;
11. Prohibition of parking under Article 33;
12. Measures for breakdown, etc. under Article 66.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 31 (Places for Slowing Down or Temporary Stopping)
(1) A driver of any vehicle or tram shall slow down in any of the following places: <Amended on Mar. 27, 2018; Dec. 22, 2020>
1. Intersections where traffic is not being directed;
2. Vicinity of a bend in a road;
3. Vicinity of the top of a slope;
4. Downhill of a steep slope;
5. Places designated by safety signs as being deemed necessary by a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency to prevent danger on roads and ensure the safety and smooth flow of traffic.
(2) A driver of any vehicle or tram shall temporarily stop in any of the following places: <Amended on Mar. 27, 2018; Dec. 22, 2020>
1. Intersections where traffic is not being directed and where left and right sides cannot be identified or where traffic is frequent;
2. Places designated by safety signs as being deemed necessary by a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency to prevent danger on roads and ensure the safety and smooth flow of traffic.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 32 (Prohibition of Stopping and Parking)
A driver of any vehicle shall not stop or park the vehicle in any of the following places: Provided, That this shall not apply where he/she complies with this Act or an order under this Act or directions of a police officer, or where he/she temporarily stops to prevent danger: <Amended on Feb. 9, 2018; Oct. 20, 2020; Dec. 22, 2020; Nov. 30, 2021>
1. Intersections, crosswalks, crossings, or sidewalks on roads where the sidewalk and the driveway are separated (excluding on-road parking lots installed across the driveway and the sidewalk in accordance with the Parking Lot Act);
2. Places within 5 meters from the edge of an intersection or a corner of a road;
3. On roads where safety zones are installed, places within 10 meters from each side of the safety zone;
4. Places within 10 meters from a pole, sign, or line indicating a bus stop: Provided, That this shall not apply where a driver of a bus stops or parks the bus to take on or let off passengers at a stop according to the operation route during the operation hours of the bus;
5. Places within 10 meters from the edge of a crossing or a crosswalk;
6. Places within 5 meters from the following:
(a) Places where fire-fighting water facilities or emergency fire-extinguishing systems under Article 10 of the Framework Act on Fire-Fighting Services are installed;
(b) Places where facilities prescribed by Presidential Decree among fire-fighting facilities under subparagraph 1 (a) of Article 2 of the Act on Fire-Fighting Facility Installation and Management are installed;
7. Places designated by a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency as being deemed necessary to prevent danger on roads and ensure the safety and smooth flow of traffic;
8. Child protection zones designated by a Mayor, etc. pursuant to Article 12 (1).
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 33 (Places where Parking is Prohibited)
A driver of any vehicle shall not park the vehicle in any of the following places: <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
1. Inside tunnels and on bridges;
2. Places within 5 meters from the following:
(a) Both edges of a construction area where road construction is being carried out;
(b) Places designated by a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency at the request of the Fire Chief in a building where a place of business of multi-use business under the Special Act on the Safety Control of Multi-Use Business is located;
3. Places designated by a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency as being deemed necessary to prevent danger on roads and ensure the safety and smooth flow of traffic.
[Wholly Amended on Feb. 9, 2018]

Article 34 (Methods of Stopping or Parking and Restriction of Time)
A driver of a vehicle intending to stop or park on a road or an on-road parking lot shall comply with the methods and time of stopping or parking and prohibitions prescribed by Presidential Decree, such as stopping the vehicle at the right edge of the driveway.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 34-2 (Special Cases for Places where Stopping or Parking is Prohibited)
(1) In any of the following cases, one may stop or park notwithstanding Article 32 (1), (4), (5), (7), or (8) or Article 33 (3):
1. Where a bicycle is stopped or parked at an electric bicycle charging station or a bicycle parking device among bicycle use facilities under subparagraph 2 of Article 2 of the Act on the Promotion of Bicycle Use;
2. Where a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency permits the stopping or parking of bicycles, etc. by safety signs at the request of a Mayor, etc.
(2) In places where a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency permits stopping or parking by determining the zone, time, method, and type of vehicle with safety signs, one may stop or park notwithstanding Article 32 (7) or (8) or Article 33 (3).
[Wholly Amended on Jan. 12, 2021]

Article 34-3 (Methods of Stopping or Parking on Slopes)
A driver of a motor vehicle intending to stop or park (including cases of stopping or parking on a slope other than a road) on a slope shall take measures to prevent skidding accidents, such as installing a chock or turning the steering device toward the edge of the road, as prescribed by Presidential Decree.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Mar. 27, 2018]

Article 35 (Measures against Parking Violations)
(1) A person falling under any of the following may order the driver of a vehicle or the person responsible for management to change the parking method or move the vehicle from the place when a vehicle parked in violation of Article 32, 33, or 34 is likely to cause danger to traffic or be an obstruction:
1. A police officer;
2. A public official (hereinafter referred to as "city/county official") appointed by a Mayor, etc. (including a Governor; the same shall apply hereinafter in this Article) as prescribed by Presidential Decree.
(2) If the driver of a vehicle or the person responsible for management is not on the scene in the case of paragraph (1), a Chief of a Police Station or a Mayor, etc. may directly change the parking method of the vehicle or take measures necessary for the change within the necessary scope to prevent danger on roads and ensure the safety and smooth flow of traffic, and in unavoidable cases, may have the vehicle moved to the jurisdiction police station or a place designated by the Chief of the Police Station or the Mayor, etc.
(3) When a Chief of a Police Station or a Mayor, etc. has moved a parking-violating vehicle to the jurisdiction police station or a place designated by the Chief of the Police Station or the Mayor, etc. pursuant to paragraph (2), he/she shall keep it with the duty of care as a good manager, and shall take necessary measures for its return, such as promptly notifying the user of the vehicle (referring to the owner or a person entrusted with the management of the vehicle from the owner; the same shall apply hereinafter) or the driver of the fact.
(4) In the case of paragraph (3), if the name and address of the user or driver of the vehicle are unknown, it shall be publicly announced as prescribed by Presidential Decree.
(5) If the user or driver of the vehicle does not request its return within one month from the date of taking measures or public announcement pursuant to paragraphs (3) and (4), notwithstanding the fact that the Chief of the Police Station or the Mayor, etc. has taken measures or made a public announcement necessary for the return of the vehicle, he/she may sell or scrap the vehicle as prescribed by Presidential Decree.
(6) The costs incurred in moving, keeping, public announcement, sale, or scrapping of a parking-violating vehicle pursuant to paragraphs (2) through (5) shall be borne by the user of the vehicle. In such cases, Articles 5 and 6 of the Administrative Vicarious Execution Act shall apply to the collection of the costs.

(7) Where a vehicle is sold or scrapped pursuant to paragraph (5), if there is an amount remaining after covering the costs incurred in moving, keeping, public announcement, sale, or scrapping of the vehicle, the remaining amount shall be paid to the user of the vehicle: Provided, That if it cannot be paid to the user of the vehicle, the amount shall be deposited in accordance with the Deposit Act.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 36 (Delegation of Towing and Keeping Tasks, etc.)
(1) A Chief of a Police Station or a Mayor, etc. may have a corporation, an organization, or an individual (hereinafter referred to as "corporation, etc.") that meets the qualification requirements such as manpower, facilities, and equipment necessary for the tasks of towing, keeping, and returning vehicles moved pursuant to Article 35, perform all or part of such tasks on their behalf.
(2) Requirements for manpower, facilities, equipment, etc. that a corporation, etc. performing the tasks of towing, keeping, and returning vehicles on behalf of the Chief of a Police Station or a Mayor, etc. pursuant to paragraph (1) must meet, and other necessary matters for the delegation of tasks shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.
(3) When delegating the tasks of towing, keeping, and returning vehicles pursuant to paragraph (1), a Chief of a Police Station or a Mayor, etc. may order measures and education necessary for the performance of the tasks.
(4) Officers and employees in charge of a corporation, etc. performing the tasks of towing, keeping, and returning vehicles on behalf of the Chief of a Police Station or a Mayor, etc. pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be deemed public officials when applying Articles 129 through 132 of the Criminal Act.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 37 (Lamps of Vehicles and Trams)
(1) A driver of any vehicle or tram shall turn on headlights, clearance lamps, tail lamps, and other lamps in any of the following cases, as prescribed by Presidential Decree: <Amended on Mar. 27, 2018>
1. Where the vehicle or tram is being operated on a road at night (referring to the period from sunset to sunrise; the same shall apply hereinafter), or where it is stopped or parked on a road due to a breakdown or other unavoidable reasons;
2. Where the vehicle or tram is being operated on a road in foggy, rainy, or snowy weather, or where it is stopped or parked on a road due to a breakdown or other unavoidable reasons;
3. Where the vehicle or tram is being operated inside a tunnel, or where it is stopped or parked on a road inside a tunnel due to a breakdown or other unavoidable reasons.
(2) When vehicles or trams proceed facing each other at night, or when a vehicle or tram follows immediately behind another vehicle, the driver of any vehicle or tram shall take necessary measures, such as reducing the brightness of the lamps or temporarily turning them off, as prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Amended on Mar. 27, 2018>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]
[Title Amended on Mar. 27, 2018]

Article 38 (Signals of Vehicles)
(1) When a driver of any vehicle intends to turn left, turn right, cross, make a U-turn, slow down, stop, or reverse, or when he/she intends to change his/her course while proceeding in the same direction, or when he/she enters or leaves a roundabout, he/she shall give a signal by hand, direction indicator, or lamp until the act is completed. <Amended on Jan. 11, 2022>
(2) The timing and method of giving signals under paragraph (1) shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 39 (Methods and Restrictions on Riding or Loading)
(1) A driver of any vehicle shall not drive the vehicle in a state where the number of passengers, the weight of the load, and the capacity of the load exceed the safety standards for operation prescribed by Presidential Decree: Provided, That this shall not apply where he/she has obtained permission from the Chief of the Police Station having jurisdiction over the starting point.
(2) Where a vehicle for which permission is intended to be obtained under the proviso of paragraph (1) corresponds to a vehicle for which operation permission must be obtained under the proviso of Article 77 (1) of the Road Act, Article 14 (4) shall apply mutatis mutandis. <Newly Inserted on Dec. 30, 2014>
(3) A driver of any vehicle or tram shall take necessary measures, such as accurately opening and closing doors, to prevent passengers or people getting on or off from falling off while driving. <Amended on Dec. 30, 2014; Mar. 27, 2018>
(4) A driver of any vehicle shall take necessary measures, such as covering the load with a cover or tying it down, to ensure that the load does not fall off while driving. <Amended on Dec. 30, 2014>
(5) A driver of any vehicle shall not drive in a state that is likely to impede safety, such as manipulating the driving device while holding an infant or an animal, or loading goods around the driver's seat. <Amended on Dec. 30, 2014>
(6) If deemed necessary to prevent danger on roads and ensure the safety and smooth flow of traffic, a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may restrict the number of passengers, the weight of the load, or the capacity of the load for drivers of vehicles. <Amended on Dec. 30, 2014; Dec. 22, 2020>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 39-2 (Provision of Measurement Data on Load)
(1) If necessary to check whether a driver has violated the safety standards for the weight and capacity of the load under Article 39 (1), a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may request the road management authority under the Road Act (including the Korea Expressway Corporation performing the authority of the Minister of Land, Infrastructure and Transport on its behalf pursuant to Article 112 of the Road Act; the same shall apply hereinafter in this Article) to provide data on the measurement of the load pursuant to Article 77 (4) of the same Act (hereinafter referred to as "measurement data on load").
(2) The road management authority requested to provide measurement data on load pursuant to paragraph (1) shall provide it unless there is a special reason.
(3) Matters concerning the method, scope, etc. of the request for provision of data under paragraph (1) shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Jan. 7, 2025]

Article 40 (Prohibition of Driving Vehicles with Poor Maintenance)
A user, a person responsible for maintenance, or a driver of any vehicle shall not have a vehicle driven or drive a vehicle (hereinafter referred to as "vehicle with poor maintenance") whose devices are not maintained in accordance with the Motor Vehicle Management Act, the Construction Machinery Management Act, or an order under those Acts.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 41 (Inspection of Vehicles with Poor Maintenance)
(1) When a vehicle deemed to be a vehicle with poor maintenance is being operated, a police officer may first stop the vehicle and then require the driver to present the vehicle registration certificate or the driver's license and inspect the devices of the vehicle.
(2) If a maintenance failure is found as a result of the inspection pursuant to paragraph (1), a police officer may have the driver of the vehicle take emergency measures before driving, or have the driver continue to drive after determining the section of passage, the passage route, and necessary conditions for preventing danger in consideration of road or traffic situations.
(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (2), if the maintenance status is very poor and there is a concern of danger, a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may keep the vehicle registration certificate and order the temporary suspension of driving. In such cases, if necessary, he/she may stop the use of the vehicle by determining a maintenance period within the scope of 10 days. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
(4) Necessary matters for the inspection of devices and the suspension of use pursuant to paragraphs (1) through (3) shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 42 (Restriction and Prohibition of Driving with Similar Marks)
(1) No one shall apply paint, marks, etc. similar to vehicles for traffic enforcement, crime investigation, or other emergency vehicles, or that cause aversion, to motor vehicles, etc. (excluding personal mobility devices), or drive a motor vehicle, etc. with such paint, marks, etc. <Amended on Jun. 9, 2020>
(2) The scope of paint, marks, etc. restricted pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

CHAPTER IV DUTIES OF DRIVERS AND EMPLOYERS, ETC.

Article 43 (Prohibition of Unlicensed Driving, etc.)
No one shall drive a motor vehicle, etc. without obtaining a driver's license from a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency pursuant to Article 80 or while the effectiveness of the driver's license is suspended. <Amended on Jun. 9, 2020; Dec. 22, 2020; Jan. 12, 2021>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 44 (Prohibition of Driving under the Influence of Alcohol)
(1) No one shall drive a motor vehicle, etc. (including construction machinery other than construction machinery under the proviso of Article 26 (1) of the Construction Machinery Management Act; the same shall apply hereinafter in this Article, Articles 45, 47, 50-3, 93 (1) 1 through 4, and 148-2), a tram, or a bicycle while in a state of intoxication. <Amended on Mar. 27, 2018; Oct. 24, 2023>
(2) If deemed necessary for traffic safety and prevention of danger, or if there is a reasonable ground to believe that a person has driven a motor vehicle, etc., a tram, or a bicycle in a state of intoxication in violation of paragraph (1), a police officer may measure whether the driver is intoxicated by a breath test. In such cases, the driver shall comply with the measurement of the police officer. <Amended on Dec. 30, 2014; Mar. 27, 2018>
(3) For a driver who objects to the result of the measurement under paragraph (2), measurement may be performed again by a method such as blood collection with the consent of the driver.
(4) The standard for the state of intoxication in which driving is prohibited pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be where the driver's blood alcohol concentration is 0.03 percent or more. <Amended on Dec. 24, 2018>
(5) A person for whom there is a reasonable ground to believe that he/she is in a state of intoxication shall not drink additional alcohol or use items prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety, such as medicines that may affect the blood alcohol concentration, for the purpose of making the measurement under paragraph (2) or (3) difficult after driving a motor vehicle, etc., a tram, or a bicycle (hereinafter referred to as "act of interfering with breathalyzer test"). <Newly Inserted on Dec. 3, 2024>
(6) Necessary matters such as the method and procedure of measurement pursuant to paragraphs (2) and (3) shall be prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Newly Inserted on Jan. 3, 2023; Dec. 3, 2024>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 45 (Prohibition of Driving when Exhausted, etc.)
(1) A driver of a motor vehicle, etc. (excluding personal mobility devices; the same shall apply hereinafter in this Article) or a tram shall not drive the motor vehicle, etc. or the tram in a state where there is a concern that he/she cannot drive normally due to exhaustion, disease, influence of drugs, or other reasons, in addition to the state of intoxication under Article 44. <Amended on Dec. 30, 2025>
(2) If there is a reasonable ground to believe that a person has driven a motor vehicle, etc. or a tram in a state where there is a concern that he/she cannot drive normally due to the influence of drugs, a police officer may measure whether the driver has taken drugs by a method prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety, such as a simple saliva reagent test. In such cases, the driver shall comply with the measurement of the police officer. <Newly Inserted on Apr. 1, 2025>
(3) For a driver who objects to the result of the measurement under paragraph (2), measurement may be performed again by a method prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety, such as blood collection, with the consent of the driver. <Newly Inserted on Apr. 1, 2025>
(4) Necessary matters for the procedure, method, etc. of measurement pursuant to paragraphs (2) and (3) shall be prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Newly Inserted on Apr. 1, 2025>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 46 (Prohibition of Joint Dangerous Acts)
(1) A driver of a motor vehicle, etc. (excluding personal mobility devices; the same shall apply hereinafter in this Article) shall not cause danger to others or cause traffic danger by driving two or more motor vehicles, etc. in a row or side by side with two or more people jointly on a road without a justifiable reason. <Amended on Jun. 9, 2020>
(2) A passenger in a motor vehicle, etc. shall not lead the joint dangerous acts under paragraph (1).
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 46-2 (Prohibition of Interfering with Functions of Traffic Enforcement Equipment)
No one shall manufacture, import, sell, or install a device that interferes with the functions of traffic enforcement equipment for the purpose of evading traffic enforcement.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 46-3 (Prohibition of Reckless Driving)
A driver of a motor vehicle, etc. (excluding personal mobility devices) shall not threaten or cause danger to others or cause traffic danger by performing two or more of the following acts in a row, or by performing one act continuously or repeatedly: <Amended on Jun. 9, 2020>
1. Violation of signals or directions under Article 5;
2. Violation of the center line under Article 13 (3);
3. Violation of speed under Article 17 (3);
4. Violation of the prohibition of crossing, U-turning, or reversing under Article 18 (1);
5. Failure to secure a safe distance, violation of the prohibition of changing course, or violation of the prohibition of sudden braking under Article 19;
6. Violation of overtaking methods or the prohibition of obstructing overtaking under Article 21 (1), (3), and (4);
7. Generating noise without a justifiable reason under Article 49 (1) 8;
8. Violation of overtaking methods on expressways under Article 60 (2);
9. Violation of the prohibition of crossing, U-turning, or reversing on expressways, etc. under Article 62.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Aug. 11, 2015]

Article 47 (Measures for Prevention of Danger)
(1) When a driver of a motor vehicle, etc. or a tram is deemed to be driving in violation of Articles 43 through 45, a police officer may temporarily stop the motor vehicle, etc. or the tram and require the driver to present the driver's license (hereinafter referred to as "driver's license"). <Amended on Mar. 27, 2018; Jun. 9, 2020; Jan. 12, 2021>
(2) For a person who drives a motor vehicle, etc. or a tram in violation of Articles 44 and 45, or a person who drives a bicycle, etc. in violation of Article 44, a police officer may order the prohibition of driving until he/she becomes able to drive normally and take necessary measures such as moving the vehicle. <Amended on Oct. 24, 2017; Mar. 27, 2018; Jun. 9, 2020>
(3) Articles 35 (3) through (7) and 36 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the movement of a vehicle pursuant to paragraph (2). <Newly Inserted on Oct. 24, 2017>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 48 (Duty of Safe Driving and Eco-friendly Economic Driving)
(1) A driver of any vehicle or tram shall accurately manipulate the steering device, braking device, and other devices of the vehicle or tram, and shall not drive at a speed or in a manner that causes danger and obstruction to others according to road traffic situations and the structure and performance of the vehicle or tram. <Amended on Mar. 27, 2018>
(2) A driver of any vehicle shall endeavor to reduce fuel consumption and carbon emissions by driving the vehicle in an eco-friendly and economical manner.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 49 (Matters to be Observed by All Drivers, etc.)
(1) A driver of any vehicle or tram shall observe the following: <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Aug. 13, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Aug. 11, 2015; Jul. 26, 2017; Mar. 27, 2018; Jun. 9, 2020; Dec. 22, 2020; Oct. 19, 2021>
1. When driving through a place with puddled water, ensure that the water does not splash and cause damage to others;
2. Temporarily stop in any of the following cases:
(a) When a child is crossing the road without a guardian, when a child is sitting or standing on the road, or when a child is playing on the road, and a danger of a traffic accident to the child is discovered;
(b) When a blind person is crossing the road with a white cane or accompanied by a guide dog for the disabled;
(c) When a person with a physical disability or an elderly person who cannot use road crossing facilities such as an underground passage or a pedestrian overpass is crossing the road;
3. Not drive a vehicle whose visible light transmittance of the front window glass and the left and right side window glasses of the driver's seat is lower than the standard prescribed by Presidential Decree and may impede traffic safety, etc.: Provided, That vehicles for guarding key persons, for ambulances, and for funeral services shall be excluded;
4. Not drive a vehicle equipped with a device that interferes with the functions of traffic enforcement equipment or other devices that do not meet the standards prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety as being likely to impede safe driving: Provided, That this shall not apply where a device for developing new technology for autonomous vehicles is installed;
5. Not obstruct the passage of other vehicles or horses by engaging in acts such as quarreling or fighting while a motor vehicle, etc. (excluding personal mobility devices; the same shall apply hereinafter in this Article) or a tram is stopped on a road;
6. Take necessary measures to prevent traffic accidents and prevent others from driving at will when the driver leaves the vehicle or tram;
7. Not open the door or get off the vehicle or tram without checking safety, and take necessary measures so that passengers do not cause traffic danger;
8. Not generate noise that causes damage to others by engaging in any of the following acts without a justifiable reason:
(a) Starting a motor vehicle, etc. suddenly or increasing speed abruptly;
(b) Increasing the number of revolutions of the motor without transmitting the power of the motor to the wheels of the vehicle;
(c) Sounding the horn repeatedly or continuously;
9. Not operate a vehicle by allowing passengers to engage in noisy acts such as dancing to the extent that it significantly impedes safe driving inside the vehicle;
10. Not use a handheld telephone (including a car phone) while driving a motor vehicle, etc. or a tram: Provided, That this shall not apply in any of the following cases:
(a) Where the motor vehicle, etc. or the tram is stopped;
(b) Where an emergency vehicle is being driven;
(c) Where there is an urgent need such as reporting various crimes and disasters;
(d) Where a device prescribed by Presidential Decree as a device that does not impede safe driving is used;
11. Not allow an image to be displayed in a position where the driver can see it while driving through a device that receives or plays video materials such as broadcasting (including those carried by the driver; hereinafter referred to as "video display device"): Provided, That this shall not apply in any of the following cases:
(a) Where the motor vehicle, etc. or the tram is stopped;
(b) Where the following images are displayed on a video display device installed or mounted on the motor vehicle, etc. or the tram:
1) Geographic guidance images or traffic information guidance images;
2) Images providing guidance on urgent situations such as national emergencies and disaster situations;
3) Images that help the driver see the left, right, front, or rear of the motor vehicle, etc. or the tram when driving;
11-2. Not manipulate a video display device while driving a motor vehicle, etc. or a tram: Provided, That this shall not apply in any of the following cases:
(a) Where the motor vehicle, etc. and the tram are stopped;
(b) Where a tram driver manipulates a video display device necessary for driving;
12. Not drive with a person in the cargo compartment of the vehicle;
13. Comply with other matters designated and publicly announced by a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency as being necessary for traffic safety and maintenance of traffic order.
(2) When a police officer discovers a vehicle that violates paragraph (1) 3 and 4, he/she may have the driver remove the violation on the scene or order necessary measures. In such cases, if the driver does not comply with the order, the police officer may directly remove the violation or take necessary measures.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 50 (Matters to be Observed by Specific Drivers)
(1) When driving a motor vehicle (excluding motorcycles), the driver shall wear a seat belt and shall have passengers in all seats wear seat belts (referring to seat belts after installing childcare protection equipment in the case of infants; the same shall apply hereinafter in this Article and Article 160 (2) 2): Provided, That this shall not apply where it is difficult to wear a seat belt due to illness, etc. or where there are reasons prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Dec. 30, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Mar. 27, 2018>
(2) Deleted <Mar. 27, 2018>
(3) A driver of a motorcycle and a motor-driven cycle (excluding personal mobility devices) shall wear personal protective equipment prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety while driving, and shall have passengers wear it as well. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Jun. 9, 2020>
(4) When driving a bicycle, etc. on a bicycle path or a road under the Road Act, the driver shall wear personal protective equipment prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety, and shall have passengers wear it as well. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Mar. 27, 2018; Jun. 9, 2020; Jan. 12, 2021>
(5) A driver of a vehicle for transportation business, a truck, or a tram prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety shall not perform any of the following acts: Provided, That subparagraph 3 shall be limited to drivers of passenger vehicles for business and trams: <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jan. 27, 2016; Jul. 26, 2017; Mar. 27, 2018>
1. Driving a vehicle in which an operation record logger is not installed or an operation record logger that cannot be used due to a breakdown, etc. is installed;
2. Driving a vehicle without using the operation record logger for its original purpose;
3. Refusing to take passengers.
(6) A driver of a passenger vehicle for business shall not engage in the act of taking multiple passengers simultaneously (합승), refusing to take passengers, or receiving a fee exceeding the reported fee.
(7) A driver of a bicycle, etc. shall not drive a bicycle, etc. that does not have the size and structure prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety and may cause danger to traffic safety. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Jun. 9, 2020>
(8) A driver of a bicycle, etc. shall not drive a bicycle, etc. in a state where there is a concern that he/she cannot drive normally due to the influence of drugs or other reasons. <Amended on Mar. 27, 2018; Jun. 9, 2020>
(9) When a driver of a bicycle, etc. passes through a road at night, he/she shall turn on headlights and tail lamps or wear light-emitting devices such as luminescent bands. <Newly Inserted on Aug. 11, 2015; Jun. 9, 2020>
(10) A driver of a personal mobility device shall not drive with more passengers than the seating capacity prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Newly Inserted on Jun. 9, 2020>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 50-2 Deleted <Mar. 19, 2024>

Article 50-3 (Matters to be Observed by Drivers with Conditional Driver's Licenses for Installation of Alcohol-Ignition Interlocks)
(1) When a person who has obtained a conditional driver's license for the installation of an alcohol-ignition interlock pursuant to Article 80-2 intends to drive a motor vehicle, etc., he/she shall install an alcohol-ignition interlock and register it with the Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency. The same shall apply where he/she changes important matters prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety among the registered matters: Provided, That this shall not apply where he/she intends to drive a motor vehicle, etc. in which an alcohol-ignition interlock is installed and registered pursuant to paragraph (2).
(2) A person who has installed an alcohol-ignition interlock in a commercial vehicle of a passenger vehicle transportation business operator under the Passenger Transport Service Act, a commercial vehicle of a truck transportation business operator under the Trucking Transport Service Act, or other motor vehicles, etc. prescribed by Presidential Decree shall register it with the Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency. The same shall apply where he/she changes important matters prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety among the registered matters.
(3) A person who has obtained a conditional driver's license for the installation of an alcohol-ignition interlock pursuant to Article 80-2 shall not drive a motor vehicle, etc. in which an alcohol-ignition interlock is not installed or an alcohol-ignition interlock that does not meet the installation standards is installed.
(4) No one shall dismantle or manipulate an alcohol-ignition interlock installed in a motor vehicle, etc. or engage in an act that impairs its utility by other methods, except in any of the following cases:
1. Where it is for the inspection or maintenance of the alcohol-ignition interlock;
2. Where the vehicle is scrapped;
3. Where it falls under reasons prescribed by Presidential Decree, such as being used for the purpose of education and research;
4. Where the period for attaching the alcohol-ignition interlock pursuant to Article 82 (2) 10 has elapsed.
(5) No one shall blow breath into the device or start a motor vehicle, etc. equipped with an alcohol-ignition interlock by other fraudulent methods so that a person who has obtained a conditional driver's license for the installation of an alcohol-ignition interlock can drive the vehicle on behalf of that person.
(6) A person who has registered the installation of an alcohol-ignition interlock with the Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2) shall submit the operation record of the motor vehicle, etc. equipped with the alcohol-ignition interlock to the Commissioner of the City/Do Provincial Police Agency at least twice a year, and shall undergo an inspection to check whether the alcohol-ignition interlock is operating normally.
(7) Standards and methods for installation of alcohol-ignition interlocks, standards and procedures for registration under paragraphs (1) and (2), timing and method of submission of operation records and inspection under paragraph (6), and other necessary matters shall be prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Oct. 24, 2023]

Article 51 (Special Protection of School Buses for Children)
(1) When a school bus for children is stopped on a road and devices such as flashing lights indicating that children or infants are getting on or off are operating, a driver of a vehicle passing through the lane where the school bus is stopped and the lane immediately next to that lane shall temporarily stop before reaching the school bus, check safety, and then slow down. <Amended on Dec. 30, 2014>
(2) In the case of paragraph (1), on a road where no center line is installed and on a road with one lane each way, a driver of a vehicle proceeding from the opposite direction shall also temporarily stop before reaching the school bus, check safety, and then slow down.
(3) A driver of any vehicle shall not overtake a school bus for children traveling on a road with an indication that it is carrying children or infants. <Amended on Dec. 30, 2014>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 52 (Report on School Buses for Children, etc.)
(1) A person who intends to operate a school bus for children (excluding commercial vehicles operated by obtaining a limited license under Article 4 (3) of the Passenger Transport Service Act and targeting children as passengers) shall report in advance to the Chief of the jurisdiction Police Station and obtain a report certificate as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Amended on Jan. 28, 2014; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017>
(2) A person who operates a school bus for children shall always keep the report certificate issued pursuant to paragraph (1) inside the school bus for children.
(3) Vehicles that can be used as school buses for children shall be limited to vehicles prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. In such cases, the vehicle shall meet the requirements prescribed by Presidential Decree, such as paint, marks, insurance subscription, and ownership relationship. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Jan. 28, 2014; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017>
(4) No one shall apply paint and marks similar to a school bus for children or drive a vehicle with such paint and marks without making a report pursuant to paragraph (1) or obtaining a limited license targeting children as passengers pursuant to Article 4 (3) of the Passenger Transport Service Act. <Amended on Jan. 28, 2014>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 53 (Duties of Drivers and Operators of School Buses for Children, etc.)
(1) A person who drives a school bus for children shall operate devices such as flashing lights pursuant to Article 51 (1) only when children or infants get on or off, and shall display the indication pursuant to Article 51 (3) only when driving with children or infants on board. <Amended on Dec. 30, 2014>
(2) A person who drives a school bus for children shall start after ensuring that all children or infants wear seat belts (referring to seat belts that can be adjusted to fit the physical structure of children or infants; the same shall apply hereinafter in this Article, Article 156 (1), and Article 160 (2) 4-2) when they get on the school bus, and shall start after ensuring that they have arrived at a safe place from the vehicle, such as a sidewalk or a road edge zone, when they get off: Provided, That this shall not apply where it is difficult to wear a seat belt due to illness, etc. or where there are reasons prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Amended on Jan. 28, 2014; Nov. 19, 2014; Dec. 30, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Mar. 27, 2018>
(3) When a person who operates a school bus for children has children or infants in the school bus, he/she shall have a guardian who is an adult designated by the operator ride with them, and the accompanying guardian shall get off the vehicle when children or infants get on or off to ensure that they get on or off safely, and shall take measures necessary for child protection, such as ensuring that children or infants sit in their seats and wear seat belts while driving. <Amended on Jan. 28, 2014; Dec. 30, 2014; May 26, 2020>
1. Deleted <May 26, 2020>
2. Deleted <May 26, 2020>
3. Deleted <May 26, 2020>
4. Deleted <May 26, 2020>
5. Deleted <May 26, 2020>
(4) A person who drives a school bus for children shall check whether all children or infants have got off after finishing the operation of the school bus. <Newly Inserted on Dec. 2, 2016>
(5) When a person who drives a school bus for children checks whether children or infants have got off pursuant to paragraph (4), he/she shall operate a device that can check the getting off of children or infants prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety (hereinafter referred to as "child getting-off check device"). <Newly Inserted on Oct. 16, 2018>
(6) A person who operates a school bus for children may attach a mark indicating that a guardian is riding together prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety (hereinafter referred to as "guardian-accompanying mark") when driving with a guardian pursuant to paragraph (3), and no one shall attach a guardian-accompanying mark when driving without a guardian. <Newly Inserted on May 26, 2020>
(7) A person who operates a school bus for children shall prepare and keep records of seat belt wearing and guardian accompaniment checks (hereinafter referred to as "safe operation records") and shall submit the safe operation records to the head of the competent authority overseeing the facilities operating school buses for children every quarter. <Newly Inserted on May 26, 2020>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]
[Title Amended on Jan. 28, 2014]

Article 53-2 Deleted <May 26, 2020>

Article 53-3 (Safety Education for Operators, etc. of School Buses for Children)
(1) A person who operates a school bus for children, a person who drives it, and a guardian under Article 53 (3) shall receive education on the safe operation of school buses for children, etc. (hereinafter referred to as "school bus safety education"). <Amended on Jan. 28, 2014; May 26, 2020>
(2) School bus safety education shall be conducted according to the following classifications: <Newly Inserted on Jan. 28, 2014; May 26, 2020>
1. New safety education: Education conducted before operating, driving, or accompanying for persons who intend to operate a school bus for children, persons who intend to drive it, and guardians who intend to accompany it pursuant to Article 53 (3);
2. Regular safety education: Education conducted regularly every two years for persons who continuously operate a school bus for children, persons who drive it, and guardians who accompany it pursuant to Article 53 (3).
(3) A person who operates a school bus for children shall not have a person who has not received school bus safety education drive the school bus or accompany the school bus. <Newly Inserted on Jan. 28, 2014; May 26, 2020>
(4) Other necessary matters for the method and procedure of school bus safety education shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Amended on Jan. 28, 2014>
[This Article Newly Inserted on Jun. 8, 2011]
[Title Amended on Jan. 28, 2014]

Article 53-4 (Provision of Information on Violations by School Buses for Children, etc.)
(1) When a person who operates or drives a school bus for children violates Article 53 or 53-5, or causes an accident in which a child is killed or injured by violating Article 53 or 53-5, the Chief of a Police Station shall provide the information to the head of the competent authority overseeing child education facilities. <Amended on May 26, 2020>
(2) The Chief of a Police Station and the head of the competent authority overseeing child education facilities shall post the information under paragraph (1) on the website operated by the respective institutions. <Newly Inserted on May 26, 2020>
(3) Specific standards, methods, and procedures for providing information pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Amended on Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; May 26, 2020>
[This Article Newly Inserted on Jan. 28, 2014]

Article 53-5 (Duties of Drivers of School Buses for Children without Accompanying Protectors)
A person who drives a school bus for children without a guardian who helps children get on or off in the Early Childhood Education Promotion Institute, alternative schools, and foreign schools under Article 2 (23) (a), the private teaching centers under (c) of the same subparagraph, and the facilities under (e) through (j) of the same subparagraph shall get off the vehicle to ensure that children or infants get on or off safely when they get on or off.
[This Article Newly Inserted on May 26, 2020]
[The amended provisions of Article 53-5 of Act No. 17311 (May 26, 2020) are valid until Nov. 26, 2022 pursuant to Article 2 of the Addenda of the same Act]

Article 54 (Measures in Case of Accidents)
(1) In case a person is killed or injured or a thing is destroyed (hereinafter referred to as "traffic accident") due to the driving of a vehicle or a tram, etc., the driver of the vehicle or tram or other crew members (hereinafter referred to as "driver, etc.") shall immediately stop and take the following measures: <Amended on Jan. 28, 2014; Dec. 2, 2016; Mar. 27, 2018>
1. Necessary measures such as rescuing casualties;
2. Providing personal information (referring to name, telephone number, address, etc.; the same shall apply hereinafter in Articles 148 and 156 (10)) to the victim.
(2) In the case of paragraph (1), the driver, etc. of the vehicle or tram shall report the following matters without delay to a police officer if a police officer is on the scene, or to the nearest national police station (including district divisions, police boxes, and branch offices; the same shall apply hereinafter) if no police officer is on the scene: Provided, That this shall not apply where it is clear that only things were destroyed and necessary measures for preventing danger on roads and ensuring smooth flow of traffic have been taken: <Amended on Dec. 2, 2016; Mar. 27, 2018>
1. Place where the accident occurred;
2. Number of casualties and degree of injury;
3. Destroyed things and degree of destruction;
4. Other measures taken, etc.
(3) A police officer of a national police station who receives a report pursuant to paragraph (2) may order the driver, etc. who has reported to wait on the scene until a police officer (excluding self-governing police officers) arrives on the scene, if deemed necessary for rescuing injured persons and preventing other traffic dangers.
(4) A police officer may give necessary instructions for rescuing injured persons and for traffic safety on the scene to the driver, etc. of the vehicle or tram that caused a traffic accident. <Amended on Mar. 27, 2018>
(5) A driver of an emergency vehicle, a vehicle carrying injured persons, a mail vehicle, a tram, etc. may have a passenger, etc. take measures pursuant to paragraph (1) or make a report pursuant to paragraph (2) and continue driving in urgent cases. <Amended on Mar. 27, 2018>
(6) A police officer (excluding self-governing police officers) shall conduct necessary investigations as prescribed by Presidential Decree when a traffic accident occurs.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 55 (Prohibition of Obstructing Measures in Case of Accidents)
No one shall obstruct the measures or reporting acts of a driver, etc. pursuant to Article 54 (1) and (2) when a traffic accident occurs.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 56 (Duties of Employers, etc.)
(1) A person who employs a driver of a vehicle or a tram, a person in a position to directly manage a driver or a vehicle or a tram, or a user of a vehicle or a tram (including a person who has leased a commercial vehicle in accordance with the Passenger Transport Service Act and a person who has leased a vehicle in accordance with the Specialized Credit Finance Business Act; hereinafter referred to as "employers, etc.") shall always warn and supervise the driver to observe this Act or an order under this Act. <Amended on Dec. 30, 2014; Mar. 27, 2018>
(2) No employer, etc. shall fail to stop a driver from driving a motor vehicle, etc. or a tram while knowing that the driver should not drive pursuant to Articles 43 through 45, or have such a driver drive a motor vehicle, etc. or a tram. <Amended on Mar. 27, 2018>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

CHAPTER IV-2 DUTIES OF AUTONOMOUS VEHICLE DRIVERS, ETC.

Article 56-2 (Matters to be Observed by Autonomous Vehicle Drivers, etc.)
(1) A driver of a vehicle equipped with an autonomous driving system that does not correspond to a fully autonomous driving system prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety shall drive by directly manipulating the steering device, braking device, and other devices without delay in response to a direct driving request from the autonomous driving system.
(2) Where a driver drives using an autonomous driving system, Article 49 (1) 10, 11, and 11-2 shall not apply.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Mar. 19, 2024]

Article 56-3 (Matters to be Observed by Autonomous Vehicle Test Drivers, etc.)
(1) A person who intends to drive a vehicle that has obtained a temporary operation license pursuant to Article 27 (1) of the Motor Vehicle Management Act shall receive education on safe driving of autonomous vehicles, etc. (hereinafter referred to as "autonomous vehicle safety education").
(2) Necessary matters concerning the curriculum, method of education, etc. pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Mar. 19, 2024]

CHAPTER V SPECIAL CASES FOR EXPRESSWAYS AND MOTORWAY-ONLY ROADS

Article 57 (General Rules)
Methods of passage for motor vehicles or pedestrians on expressways or motorway-only roads (hereinafter referred to as "expressways, etc.") shall be as prescribed in this Chapter, and matters other than those prescribed in this Chapter shall be as prescribed in Chapters I through IV.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 58 (Measures for Prevention of Danger, etc.)
If traffic on an expressway, etc. is dangerous or congested or is likely to be so due to damage to the road, occurrence of a traffic accident, or other circumstances, a police officer (excluding self-governing police officers) may temporarily prohibit or restrict the passage of motor vehicles in progress or order necessary measures to the driver of the motor vehicle within the necessary scope to prevent traffic danger or congestion and ensure the safety and smooth flow of traffic.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 59 (Installation and Management of Traffic Safety Facilities)
(1) A manager of an expressway shall install and manage traffic safety facilities to prevent danger occurring on the expressway and ensure the safety and smooth flow of traffic. In such cases, if the manager of the expressway intends to install traffic safety facilities, he/she shall consult with the Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency.
(2) The Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency may instruct the manager of the expressway on matters necessary for the management of traffic safety facilities.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 60 (Prohibition of Driving on Shoulders, etc.)
(1) A driver of a motor vehicle shall pass along the lanes prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety on an expressway, etc., except in unavoidable circumstances such as a breakdown of the motor vehicle, and shall not pass on the shoulder (referring to the road shoulder under the Road Act): Provided, That this shall not apply in any of the following cases: <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Dec. 24, 2019>
1. Where driving an emergency vehicle or a vehicle engaged in work such as repair and maintenance of expressways, etc.;
2. Where driving a motor vehicle on the shoulder according to a signal or direction of a traffic signal or a police officer, etc. in case of vehicle congestion.
(2) When a driver of a motor vehicle intends to overtake another vehicle on an expressway, he/she shall pass safely through the lane prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety using a direction indicator, lamp, or horn. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 61 (Installation of Exclusive Lanes on Expressways)
(1) If particularly necessary for the smooth flow of expressways, the Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency may install exclusive lanes on expressways.
(2) Article 15 (2) and (3) shall apply mutatis mutandis to the types, etc. of exclusive lanes on expressways pursuant to paragraph (1).
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 62 (Prohibition of Crossing, etc.)
A driver of a motor vehicle shall not cross, U-turn, or reverse on an expressway, etc. by driving the vehicle: Provided, That this shall not apply where it is absolutely necessary for the purpose of preventing or removing danger on expressways, etc. or for emergency measures for traffic accidents among emergency vehicles or vehicles engaged in work such as repair and maintenance of roads.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 63 (Prohibition of Passage, etc.)
A driver of a vehicle or horse other than a motor vehicle (limited to emergency vehicles in the case of motorcycles) or a pedestrian shall not pass through or cross an expressway, etc.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 64 (Prohibition of Stopping and Parking on Expressways, etc.)
A driver of a motor vehicle shall not stop or park the vehicle on an expressway, etc.: Provided, That this shall not apply in any of the following cases: <Amended on Jun. 9, 2020>
1. Where the vehicle is temporarily stopped or parked in accordance with the provisions of statutes or directions of a police officer (excluding self-governing police officers) or to prevent danger;
2. Where the vehicle is stopped or parked at a place where safety signs are installed for stopping or parking, or at a stop;
3. Where the vehicle is stopped or parked in a road edge zone (including the shoulder) due to a breakdown or other unavoidable reasons;
4. Where the vehicle is stopped at a place where tolls are collected to pay tolls;
5. Where the vehicle is stopped or parked for the manager of the road to repair, maintain, or patrol the expressway, etc.;
6. Where a police emergency vehicle is stopped or parked for crime investigation, traffic enforcement, or other police duties on expressways, etc.;
6-2. Where a fire engine is stopped or parked for fire-fighting activities such as fire suppression and rescue and first aid, fire-fighting support activities, and daily safety activities on expressways, etc.;
6-3. Where an emergency vehicle other than a police emergency vehicle and a fire engine is stopped or parked to achieve its purpose of use;
7. Where the vehicle is temporarily stopped or parked in a lane of an expressway, etc. when it cannot move due to traffic congestion or other unavoidable reasons.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 65 (Priority Order when Entering Expressways)
(1) When a driver of a motor vehicle (excluding emergency vehicles) intends to enter an expressway, he/she shall not obstruct the passage of other motor vehicles traveling on the expressway.
(2) A driver of a motor vehicle other than an emergency vehicle shall not obstruct the entry of an emergency vehicle when the emergency vehicle enters an expressway.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 66 (Measures for Breakdown, etc.)
When a driver of a motor vehicle becomes unable to drive the vehicle on an expressway, etc. due to a breakdown or other reasons, he/she shall install a sign prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety (hereinafter referred to as "sign for a broken-down vehicle") and take necessary measures such as moving the vehicle to a place other than the expressway, etc. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 67 (Matters to be Observed by Drivers on Expressways, etc.)
(1) Deleted <Mar. 27, 2018>
(2) A driver of a motor vehicle operating on an expressway, etc. shall always keep a sign for a broken-down vehicle pursuant to Article 66 to ensure traffic safety and smooth flow, and when the vehicle becomes unable to operate due to a breakdown or other unavoidable reasons, he/she shall stop the vehicle at the right edge of the road and install the sign as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]
[Title Amended on Mar. 27, 2018]

CHAPTER VI USE OF ROADS

Article 68 (Prohibited Acts on Roads, etc.)
(1) No one shall manipulate traffic signals at will, or remove, relocate, or destroy traffic safety facilities, and no one shall install traffic safety facilities or similar artificial structures on roads.
(2) No one shall leave things that may obstruct traffic on a road at will.
(3) No one shall engage in any of the following acts: <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
1. Act of wandering on a road while intoxicated;
2. Act of lying down, sitting, or standing on a road in a manner that obstructs traffic;
3. Act of playing games such as ball games or sledding on a road with frequent traffic;
4. Act of throwing or firing stones, glass bottles, pieces of metal, or other things that may damage people or vehicles on a road;
5. Act of throwing things out of a vehicle or horse traveling on a road;
6. Act of jumping onto, hanging onto, or jumping off a vehicle or horse traveling on a road;
7. Other acts designated and publicly announced by a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency as being necessary to prevent traffic danger.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 69 (Report on Road Construction and Safety Measures, etc.)
(1) A person who intends to perform construction such as digging or drilling a road in accordance with an order of a road management authority or a construction execution authority (hereinafter referred to as "construction executor" in this Article) shall report the date, construction section, construction period, method of execution, and other necessary matters to the Chief of the jurisdiction Police Station three days before the execution of construction: Provided, That in case of urgent need for construction due to a landslide, a water pipe burst, etc., he/she shall take appropriate safety measures and report without delay after starting the construction.
(2) If the Chief of the jurisdiction Police Station determines that traffic congestion around the construction site has significantly increased to an unexpected level and the impact on traffic safety and smooth flow is significant, he/she may take necessary measures such as restricting construction hours for the construction executor under paragraph (1) through prior consultation with the relevant road management authority.
(3) When it is necessary to induce or direct the passage of vehicles or horses during the construction period, the construction executor shall install traffic safety facilities according to the instructions of the Chief of the jurisdiction Police Station.
(4) A construction executor shall deploy safety personnel or safety induction equipment according to the instructions of the Chief of the jurisdiction Police Station, if necessary, in consideration of the scale of construction, the surrounding traffic environment, etc. during the construction period. <Newly Inserted on Oct. 20, 2020>
(5) Necessary matters for the installation of traffic safety facilities pursuant to paragraph (3) and the deployment of safety personnel or safety induction equipment pursuant to paragraph (4) shall be prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Newly Inserted on Oct. 20, 2020>
(6) If a construction executor has damaged traffic safety facilities due to construction, he/she shall restore them to their original state and report the results to the Chief of the jurisdiction Police Station, as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Oct. 20, 2020>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 70 (Notification of Permission for Occupancy of Roads, etc.)
(1) When a road management authority has performed any of the following acts on a road, it shall immediately notify the Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency in the case of expressways, and shall immediately notify the Chief of the jurisdiction Police Station in the case of roads other than expressways: <Amended on Jun. 8, 2011; Jan. 14, 2014>
1. Permission for occupancy of a road pursuant to Article 61 of the Road Act;
2. Prohibition or restriction of passage pursuant to Article 76 of the Road Act or restriction on operation of vehicles pursuant to Article 77 of the same Act.
(2) Deleted <Dec. 21, 2007>
(3) The Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency or the Chief of the jurisdiction Police Station who receives a notification pursuant to paragraph (1) may request necessary measures from the road management authority if deemed necessary to ensure traffic safety and smooth flow. In such cases, the road management authority shall take such measures unless there is a justifiable reason. <Amended on Jun. 8, 2011>
[Title Amended on Dec. 21, 2007]

Article 71 (Measures against Illegal Artificial Structures on Roads)
(1) A Chief of a Police Station may order a person falling under any of the following to correct a violation or remove a traffic obstruction caused by the violation: <Amended on Jan. 14, 2014>
1. A person who has installed traffic safety facilities or other similar artificial structures at will in violation of Article 68 (1);
2. A person who has left things on a road in violation of Article 68 (2);
3. A person who has installed an artificial structure, etc. that may obstruct traffic or performed such construction, etc. in violation of Article 61 of the Road Act.
(2) If a Chief of a Police Station cannot order measures pursuant to paragraph (1) because the name and address of the person falling under any of the subparagraphs of paragraph (1) are unknown, he/she shall keep the artificial structures, etc. after taking measures such as directly removing them. In such cases, artificial structures, etc. that are likely to wear out or be destroyed or that are very difficult to keep may be sold and the proceeds may be kept.
(3) Necessary matters for the keeping, sale, etc. of artificial structures, etc. pursuant to paragraph (2) shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 72 (Measures for Prevention of Danger against Ground Artificial Structures on Roads, etc.)
(1) If there is a concern that ground artificial structures on a road or other facilities or things may cause danger to traffic or significantly obstruct traffic, a Chief of a Police Station may order the owner, possessor, or manager of the artificial structures, etc. to remove them or take other necessary measures for traffic safety.
(2) If a Chief of a Police Station cannot order measures pursuant to paragraph (1) because the name and address of the owner, possessor, or manager of the artificial structures, etc. are unknown, he/she shall keep the artificial structures, etc. after taking measures such as directly removing them. In such cases, artificial structures, etc. that are likely to wear out or be destroyed or that are very difficult to keep may be sold and the proceeds may be kept.
(3) Necessary matters for the keeping, sale, etc. of artificial structures, etc. pursuant to paragraph (2) shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

CHAPTER VII TRAFFIC SAFETY EDUCATION

Article 73 (Traffic Safety Education)
(1) A person who intends to obtain a driver's license shall receive traffic safety education on the following matters before taking the tests under Article 83 (1) 2 and 3, as prescribed by Presidential Decree: Provided, That this shall not apply to a person who has received special traffic safety compulsory education pursuant to paragraph (2) 1 or a person who has completed academic education at a specialized automobile driving school under Article 104 (1): <Amended on Dec. 30, 2014; Oct. 24, 2017; Mar. 27, 2018>
1. Basic etiquette required for drivers;
2. Statutes and knowledge concerning road traffic;
3. Safe driving ability;
3-2. Matters concerning prevention and handling of traffic accidents;
4. Matters concerning prevention of traffic accidents for children, persons with disabilities, and seniors;
5. Knowledge and skills required for eco-friendly economic driving;
6. Tips for clearing the way for emergency vehicles;
7. Other necessary matters for ensuring traffic safety.
(2) A person falling under any of the following shall receive special traffic safety compulsory education as prescribed by Presidential Decree. In such cases, a person falling under subparagraphs 2 through 5 may receive a postponement of compulsory education as prescribed by Presidential Decree if there is an unavoidable reason: <Amended on Dec. 30, 2014; Aug. 11, 2015; Oct. 24, 2017; Oct. 20, 2020>
1. A person whose driver's license has been revoked (excluding a person whose driver's license has been revoked as he/she falls under Article 93 (1) 9 or 20) and who intends to obtain a driver's license again;
2. A person who is subject to or has received a disposition of suspension of the effectiveness of a driver's license as he/she falls under Article 93 (1) 1, 5, 5-2, 10, and 10-2, and whose suspension period has not ended;
3. A person whose disposition of revocation of a driver's license or suspension of the effectiveness of a driver's license (limited to cases subject to a disposition of suspension of the effectiveness of a driver's license as he/she falls under Article 93 (1) 1, 5, 5-2, 10, and 10-2) has been exempted, and for whom one month has not passed since the date of exemption;
4. A novice driver who is subject to or has received a disposition of suspension of the effectiveness of a driver's license and whose suspension period has not ended;
5. A person within one year from the date of receiving demerit points pursuant to Article 93 (2) by causing an accident in which a child is killed or injured while driving in a child protection zone under Article 12 (1).
(3) When a person falling under any of the following applies to the Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency, he/she may receive special traffic safety recommended education as prescribed by Presidential Decree. In such cases, it shall be limited to persons who have not received the relevant education within one year before receiving the recommended education: <Newly Inserted on Oct. 24, 2017; Dec. 22, 2020>
1. A person who is subject to or has received a disposition of suspension of the effectiveness of a driver's license for reasons other than those under paragraph (2) 2 and 4, such as violation of traffic regulations;

2. A person who is subject to or has received a disposition of suspension of the effectiveness of a driver's license due to reasons other than those under paragraph (2) 2 and 4, such as violation of traffic regulations;
3. A person who has received special traffic safety compulsory education pursuant to paragraph (2) 2 through 4;
4. A person among those who have obtained a driver's license who is 65 years of age or older on the day they intend to receive education.
(4) A person engaged in the driving of an emergency vehicle prescribed by Presidential Decree shall regularly receive education on safe driving of emergency vehicles, etc. as prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Newly Inserted on Oct. 24, 2017>
(5) A person 75 years of age or older who intends to obtain a driver's license shall receive traffic safety education on the following matters before taking the tests under Article 83 (1) 2 and 3, and a person 75 years of age or older on the renewal date of the driver's license shall receive the same within the renewal period of the driver's license: <Newly Inserted on Mar. 27, 2018>
1. Matters concerning aging and safe driving;
2. Matters concerning drugs and driving;
3. Matters concerning coping by cognitive ability such as memory and judgment;
4. Matters concerning understanding of traffic-related statutes.
(6) A person who intends to obtain a conditional driver's license for the installation of an alcohol-ignition interlock pursuant to Article 80-2 shall receive traffic safety education on the operation method of the alcohol-ignition interlock and the prevention of drunk driving before taking the driver's license examination on matters under Article 83 (1) 2 and 3, as prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Newly Inserted on Oct. 24, 2023>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 74 (Designation of Traffic Safety Education Institutions, etc.)
(1) Traffic safety education (hereinafter referred to as "traffic safety education") that a person who intends to obtain a driver's license must receive pursuant to Article 73 (1) shall be conducted at specialized automobile driving schools under Article 104 (1) and institutions or facilities designated by a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency pursuant to paragraph (2). <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
(2) If an institution or facility falling under any of the following applies for designation by meeting the requirements such as facilities, equipment, and instructors prescribed by Presidential Decree to conduct traffic safety education, a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may designate the institution or facility as an institution conducting traffic safety education (hereinafter referred to as "traffic safety education institution"). <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020; Jan. 30, 2024>
1. Automobile driving schools under Article 99;
2. The Korea Road Traffic Authority and its branches, branch offices, and education institutions;
3. Lifelong education facilities affiliated with universities where lifelong education courses under Article 30 (2) of the Lifelong Education Act are opened;
4. Education facilities operated by Jeju Special Self-Governing Province or a City/Gun/Autonomous Gu.
(3) When a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency designates a traffic safety education institution pursuant to paragraph (2), he/she shall issue a designation certificate prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Dec. 22, 2020>
(4) A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency shall not designate any of the following institutions or facilities as a traffic safety education institution: <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
1. An institution or facility established and operated within three years from the date of revocation of designation by a person who established and operated a traffic safety education institution whose designation was revoked pursuant to Article 79;
2. An institution or facility established and operated at the same place within three years from the date of revocation of designation pursuant to Article 79.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 75 (Operating Managers of Traffic Safety Education Institutions)
(1) If deemed necessary to efficiently manage education tasks, the head of a traffic safety education institution may appoint an operating manager of the traffic safety education institution from among the employees of the institution (excluding traffic safety education instructors under Article 76 (1)).
(2) The head of a traffic safety education institution (referring to the operating manager if the head has appointed an operating manager pursuant to paragraph (1); the same shall apply hereinafter) shall guide and supervise instructors in charge of traffic safety education (hereinafter referred to as "traffic safety education instructors") and manage traffic safety education tasks to ensure they are conducted fairly.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 76 (Qualification Criteria for Traffic Safety Education Instructors, etc.)
(1) A traffic safety education institution shall have traffic safety education instructors.
(2) A traffic safety education instructor under paragraph (1) shall be a person falling under any of the following:
1. A person who holds a qualification certificate for academic education instructors issued by the Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency pursuant to Article 106 (2);
2. A person who has a career of being engaged in administration or education tasks related to road traffic for two years or more and who has received qualification education for traffic safety education instructors prescribed by Presidential Decree.
(3) No person falling under any of the following shall become a traffic safety education instructor: <Amended on Feb. 13, 2024>
1. Deleted <Feb. 13, 2024>;
2. A person for whom two years have not passed since the execution of a sentence of imprisonment without labor or heavier was completed or exempted, or who is in the period of suspension of execution of such a sentence, for committing any of the following crimes:
(a) Crimes under Article 3 (1) of the Act on Special Cases concerning the Settlement of Traffic Accidents;
(b) Crimes under Articles 5-3, 5-11 (1), and 5-13 of the Act on the Aggravated Punishment of Specific Crimes;
(c) Sexual violence crimes under Article 2 of the Act on Special Cases concerning the Punishment, etc. of Sexual Crimes;
(d) Sexual crimes against children and adolescents under subparagraph 2 of Article 2 of the Act on the Protection of Children and Adolescents against Sexual Abuse;
3. Deleted <Feb. 13, 2024>;
4. A person who has not obtained a driver's license to drive a motor vehicle or a novice driver.
(4) The head of a traffic safety education institution shall not have a person who is not a traffic safety education instructor conduct traffic safety education.
(5) If deemed necessary due to the amendment of statutes related to road traffic or for effective traffic safety education, a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may conduct training for traffic safety education instructors as prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
(6) When a traffic safety education instructor must receive training pursuant to paragraph (5), the head of the traffic safety education institution shall take measures so that he/she can receive the training unless there is an unavoidable reason.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 77 (Confirmation of Attendance at Traffic Safety Education, etc.)
(1) When a person who intends to obtain a driver's license finishes traffic safety education pursuant to Article 73 (1), a traffic safety education instructor shall report the results of individual attendance to the head of the traffic safety education institution.
(2) When the head of a traffic safety education institution receives a report pursuant to paragraph (1), he/she shall issue an education confirmation certificate to a person who has received education meeting the criteria prescribed by Presidential Decree and report the fact to the Commissioner of the jurisdiction City/Do Provincial Police Agency without delay. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 78 (Report on Suspension or Closure of Traffic Safety Education Institution)
When the head of a traffic safety education institution intends to suspend the operation of the traffic safety education institution for one month or more or to close it, he/she shall report to the Commissioner of the City/Do Provincial Police Agency as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety seven days before the date of suspension or closure. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Dec. 22, 2020>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 79 (Revocation of Designation of Traffic Safety Education Institution, etc.)
(1) When a traffic safety education institution falls under any of the following, a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may revoke the designation or order the suspension of operation for a period of up to one year according to the criteria prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety: Provided, That in the case of falling under subparagraph 3, the designation must be revoked: <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Dec. 22, 2020>
1. Where a traffic safety education institution fails to correct a violation within 30 days after receiving a correction order because it does not meet the designation criteria under Article 74 (2);
2. Where the head of a traffic safety education institution fails to take measures so that traffic safety education instructors can receive training in violation of Article 76 (6);
3. Where the head of a traffic safety education institution issues an education confirmation certificate to a person who has not completed the traffic safety education course in violation of Article 77 (2);
4. Where the head of a traffic safety education institution fails to submit data or make a report or submits false data or makes a false report in violation of Article 141 (2);
5. Where the head of a traffic safety education institution refuses, obstructs, or evades the entry and inspection of relevant public officials in violation of Article 141 (2).
(2) When a traffic safety education institution continues to operate in violation of an operation suspension order pursuant to paragraph (1), a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may revoke the designation according to the criteria prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Dec. 22, 2020>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

CHAPTER VIII DRIVER'S LICENSE

Article 80 (Driver's License)
(1) A person who intends to drive a motor vehicle, etc. shall obtain a driver's license from a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency: Provided, That this shall not apply to a person who drives a vehicle equipped with a motor under Article 2 (19) (b) that can be operated only at a maximum speed of 20 kilometers per hour or less by a person who is transportation-vulnerable under subparagraph 1 of Article 2 of the Act on Promotion of the Transportation Convenience of Vulnerable Highway Users. <Amended on Jun. 9, 2020; Dec. 22, 2020; Jan. 12, 2021>
(2) A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency shall classify and manage the scope of driver's licenses as follows based on the type of vehicle that can be driven. In such cases, the types of vehicles that can be driven according to the scope of driver's licenses shall be prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety: <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jan. 27, 2016; Jul. 26, 2017; Dec. 22, 2020>
1. Class I Driver's License:
(a) Large-sized license;
(b) Ordinary license;
(c) Small-sized license;
(d) Special license:
1) Large-sized towing vehicle license;
2) Small-sized towing vehicle license;
3) Wrecker license;
2. Class II Driver's License:
(a) Ordinary license;
(b) Small-sized license;
(c) Motor-driven cycle license;
3. Practice Driver's License:
(a) Class I ordinary practice license;
(b) Class II ordinary practice license.
(3) A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may attach necessary conditions to a driver's license, such as limiting the structure of a motor vehicle, etc. that can be driven, as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety according to the physical condition or driving ability of the person to receive the driver's license. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Jun. 9, 2020; Dec. 22, 2020; Jan. 12, 2021>
(4) A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may newly attach or change the conditions under paragraph (3) according to the physical condition or driving ability of a person who has received an aptitude test pursuant to Articles 87 and 88. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 80-2 (Conditional Driver's License for Installation of Alcohol-Ignition Interlocks)
(1) Where a person whose driver's license has been revoked by violating Article 44 (1), (2), or (5) (limited to cases of driving a motor vehicle, etc. or a tram; Provided, That cases of driving a personal mobility device are excluded; the same shall apply hereinafter) again within 5 years from the date of violating the same, intends to drive a motor vehicle, etc., he/she shall obtain a conditional driver's license for installation of an alcohol-ignition interlock (hereinafter referred to as "conditional driver's license") from a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency. <Amended on Dec. 3, 2024>
(2) An alcohol-ignition interlock shall be attached for the same period as the period of disqualification for a driver's license applied to the target of issuance of a conditional driver's license pursuant to Article 82 (2) 1 through 9, and the period of attachment shall be calculated from the day after the period of disqualification for a driver's license ends.
(3) Necessary matters for the scope, issuance, type, etc. of the conditional driver's license pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Oct. 24, 2023]

Article 81 (Effectiveness of Practice Driver's License)
A practice driver's license shall be effective for one year from the date of receiving the license: Provided, That even before one year from the date of receiving the practice driver's license, the practice driver's license shall lose its effectiveness if the person who received it obtains a Class I ordinary license or a Class II ordinary license.

Article 82 (Disqualification for Driver's License)
(1) No person falling under any of the following shall obtain a driver's license: <Amended on Dec. 30, 2014; May 29, 2016; Dec. 24, 2019>
1. A person under 18 years of age (under 16 years of age in the case of motor-driven cycles);
2. A person prescribed by Presidential Decree as a person with a mental illness or a person with epilepsy who may cause traffic danger and obstruction;
3. A person who cannot hear (limited to large-sized and special licenses among Class I driver's licenses), a person who cannot see (in the case of a person who cannot see with only one eye, limited to large-sized and special licenses among Class I driver's licenses), or other persons with physical disabilities prescribed by Presidential Decree;
4. A person who has lost both arms above the elbow joints or who cannot use both arms at all: Provided, That this shall not apply where he/she can drive normally using a motor vehicle specially manufactured to suit his/her degree of physical disability;
5. A person prescribed by Presidential Decree as an addict to narcotics, cannabis, psychotropic drugs, or alcohol who may cause traffic danger and obstruction;
6. A person under 19 years of age or a person with less than one year of experience in driving a motor vehicle (excluding motorcycles) in the case of intending to obtain a Class I large-sized license or a Class I special license;
7. A person among those who do not have the nationality of the Republic of Korea who has not made alien registration pursuant to Article 31 of the Immigration Act (excluding those exempted from alien registration) or who has not made a domestic residence report pursuant to Article 6 (1) of the Act on the Immigration and Legal Status of Overseas Koreans.
(2) A person falling under any of the following cases shall not obtain a driver's license until the period prescribed in each subparagraph has passed: Provided, That in case a sentence lighter than a fine is confirmed or a sentence of stay of execution is confirmed due to the reasons under each subparagraph, or where there is a decision of suspension of prosecution or protective disposition under Article 32 of the Juvenile Act, he/she may obtain a driver's license even within the period prescribed in each subparagraph: <Amended on Aug. 11, 2015; Dec. 24, 2018; Jun. 9, 2020; Jan. 12, 2021; Oct. 19, 2021; Jan. 11, 2022; Oct. 24, 2023; Dec. 3, 2024; Apr. 1, 2025>
1. In case of driving a motor vehicle, etc. in violation of Article 43 or 96 (3), one year (six months in case of intending to obtain a motor-driven cycle license, but one year from the date of violation in case of violating Article 46) from the date of violation (referring to the date of revocation if revoked due to driving during the period of suspension of effectiveness of a driver's license; the same shall apply hereinafter in this Article): Provided, That in case of failing to take necessary measures pursuant to Article 54 (1) and to report pursuant to paragraph (2) after killing or injuring a person, it shall be five years from the date of violation;
2. In case of driving a motor vehicle, etc. in violation of Article 43 or 96 (3) three times or more, two years from the date of violation;
3. In any of the following cases, five years from the date of revocation of the driver's license (referring to the date of violation if Article 43 or 96 (3) is also violated):
(a) Where a person kills or injures another person while driving in violation of Article 44 (1) or (2), Article 45 (1) or (2), or Article 46 (including cases of also violating Article 43 or 96 (3)) and fails to take necessary measures and report pursuant to Article 54 (1) and (2);
(b) Where a person causes the death of another person while driving in violation of Article 44 (1) or (2), Article 45 (1) (limited to driving in a state where there is a concern that he/she cannot drive normally due to the influence of drugs), or Article 45 (2) (including cases of also violating Article 43 or 96 (3));
(c) Where a person for whom there is a reasonable ground to believe that he/she is in a state of intoxication in connection with Article 44 (5) kills or injures another person while driving a motor vehicle, etc., fails to take necessary measures and report pursuant to Article 54 (1) and (2), and engages in an act of interfering with breathalyzer test (including cases of also violating Article 43 or 96 (3));
(d) Where a person for whom there is a reasonable ground to believe that he/she is in a state of intoxication in connection with Article 44 (5) causes the death of another person while driving a motor vehicle, etc. and engages in an act of interfering with breathalyzer test (including cases of also violating Article 43 or 96 (3));
4. In case of failing to take necessary measures and report pursuant to Article 54 (1) and (2) after killing or injuring a person for reasons other than those under Articles 43 through 46, four years from the date of revocation of the driver's license;
5. In case of violating subparagraph 6 (b), (c), or (e) two times or more (including cases of also violating Article 43 or 96 (3)), three years from the date of revocation of the driver's license (referring to the date of violation if Article 43 or 96 (3) is also violated); in case a person who has committed a crime using a motor vehicle, etc. or who has stolen or robbed another person's motor vehicle, etc. drives the motor vehicle, etc. in violation of Article 43, three years from the date of violation;
6. In any of the following cases, two years from the date of revocation of the driver's license (referring to the date of violation if Article 43 or 96 (3) is also violated):
(a) Where Article 44 (1), (2), or (5) is violated two times or more (including cases of also violating Article 43 or 96 (3));
(b) Where a traffic accident is caused while driving in violation of Article 44 (1) or (2) (including cases of also violating Article 43 or 96 (3));
(c) Where a person for whom there is a reasonable ground to believe that he/she is in a state of intoxication in connection with Article 44 (5) drives a motor vehicle, etc., causes a traffic accident, and engages in an act of interfering with breathalyzer test (including cases of also violating Article 43 or 96 (3));
(d) Where Article 45 (1) (limited to driving in a state where there is a concern that he/she cannot drive normally due to the influence of drugs) or (2) is violated two times or more (including cases of also violating Article 43 or 96 (3));
(e) Where a traffic accident is caused while driving in violation of Article 45 (1) (limited to driving in a state where there is a concern that he/she cannot drive normally due to the influence of drugs) or (2) (including cases of also violating Article 43 or 96 (3));
(f) Where Article 46 is violated two times or more (including cases of also violating Article 43 or 96 (3));
(g) Where the driver's license is revoked due to the reasons under Article 93 (1) 8, 12, or 13;
7. In case the driver's license is revoked for reasons other than those under subparagraphs 1 through 6, one year (six months in case of intending to obtain a motor-driven cycle license, but one year in case the driver's license was revoked for violating Article 46) from the date of revocation of the driver's license: Provided, That this shall not apply where the driver's license is revoked for the reason under Article 93 (1) 9;
8. While receiving a disposition of suspension of the effectiveness of a driver's license, the suspension period;
9. While a driver who drives with an international driver's license or a mutually recognized foreign license pursuant to Article 96 is receiving a disposition of prohibition of driving, the prohibition period;
10. The period for attaching an alcohol-ignition interlock pursuant to Article 80-2 (2) (excluding cases of conditional driver's licenses).
(3) A person whose driver's license has been revoked pursuant to Article 93 shall not obtain a driver's license even after the period of disqualification for a driver's license pursuant to paragraph (2) has ended, unless he/she receives special traffic safety compulsory education pursuant to Article 73 (2) after the revocation. <Amended on Oct. 24, 2017>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 83 (Driver's License Examination, etc.)
(1) Driver's license examinations (excluding Class I ordinary and Class II ordinary license examinations) shall be conducted by the Korea Road Traffic Authority on the following matters according to the classification of driver's licenses under Article 80 (2): Provided, That driver's license examinations prescribed by Presidential Decree shall be conducted by a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency or the Korea Road Traffic Authority as prescribed by Presidential Decree: <Amended on Jun. 9, 2020; Dec. 22, 2020; Jan. 12, 2021; Jan. 30, 2024>
1. Aptitude necessary for driving a motor vehicle, etc.;
2. Knowledge of statutes concerning motor vehicles, etc. and road traffic;
3. Knowledge of maintenance methods for motor vehicles, etc. and tips for inspections necessary for safe driving;
4. Skills necessary for driving a motor vehicle, etc.;
5. Knowledge and skills necessary for eco-friendly economic driving.
(2) Class I ordinary and Class II ordinary license examinations shall be conducted by the Korea Road Traffic Authority on whether the applicant has the ability to drive a motor vehicle on a road. In such cases, the Class I ordinary license examination shall target persons who have received a Class I ordinary practice license, and the Class II ordinary license examination shall target persons who have received a Class II ordinary practice license. <Amended on Jan. 30, 2024>
(3) A person who cannot obtain a driver's license pursuant to Article 82 shall not take a driver's license examination.
(4) A person who intends to take the driver's license examinations under paragraph (1) 2 and 3 shall receive traffic safety education pursuant to Article 73 (1) or academic education at a specialized automobile driving school under Article 104 (1) before taking the driver's license examinations.
(5) The method, procedure, and other necessary matters for driver's license examinations pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2) shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 84 (Exemption from Driver's License Examination)
(1) For a person falling under any of the following, part of the driver's license examination shall be exempted as prescribed by Presidential Decree: <Amended on Feb. 10, 2012; Dec. 2, 2016; Jun. 9, 2020; Jan. 12, 2021>
1. A person who graduated from the department of mechanical engineering or a department related to motor vehicles at a university, junior college, or technical high school and who completed courses on motor vehicles during his/her studies;
2. A person who passed a technical qualification test for maintenance or inspection of motor vehicles pursuant to Article 10 of the National Technical Qualifications Act;
3. A person among those who hold a driver's license issued by a competent authority of a foreign country (hereinafter referred to as "foreign license") who falls under any of the following:
(a) A person whose resident registration is made pursuant to Article 6 of the Resident Registration Act;
(b) A person who has made alien registration (hereinafter referred to as "registered alien") pursuant to Article 31 of the Immigration Act or a person exempted from alien registration;
(c) A person recognized as a refugee under the Refugee Act;
(d) A person who has made a domestic residence report (hereinafter referred to as "overseas Korean with foreign nationality") pursuant to Article 6 of the Act on the Immigration and Legal Status of Overseas Koreans;
4. A person who has experience in driving a military vehicle equivalent to a motor vehicle, etc. for six months or more during military service;
5. A person who intends to obtain a driver's license again after the driver's license was revoked because he/she did not receive an aptitude test pursuant to Article 87 (2) or 88;
6. A person who intends to add a type of vehicle that can be driven according to the classification under Article 80 (2) after obtaining a driver's license;
7. A person who intends to obtain a driver's license again after the driver's license was revoked pursuant to Articles 93 (1) 15 through 18;
8. A person who holds a completion certificate or graduation certificate from a specialized automobile driving school under Article 108 (5);
9. A person whose fact of obtaining a driver's license in the area north of the Military Demarcation Line is recognized.
(2) For a person who holds a foreign license under paragraph (1) 3 (referring to a license obtained during a stay of more than 90 days in the country that issued the license and which is not a temporary or practice license), different driver's license examinations may be exempted as prescribed by Presidential Decree depending on whether the relevant country is a country that exempts all driver's license examination processes except for the aptitude test for persons holding a Republic of Korea driver's license (hereinafter referred to as "country recognizing domestic license" in this Article): Provided, That a foreign license held by a person staying in the country for purposes prescribed by Presidential Decree, such as diplomacy, official duties, or research, shall be deemed a driver's license issued by a competent authority of a country recognizing domestic license, and for a country that has concluded an agreement on mutual recognition of driver's licenses with the Republic of Korea among countries recognizing domestic licenses, part of the driver's license examination may be exempted according to the agreement.
(3) When the Korea Road Traffic Authority exempts part of the driver's license examination and issues a domestic driver's license to a person holding a foreign license pursuant to paragraphs (1) 3 and (2), it may collect the person's foreign license only when there are reasons prescribed by Presidential Decree, such as a request from the country that issued the foreign license. In such cases, if there is a request from a relevant agency of the country that issued the foreign license, the foreign license may be sent to the country. <Amended on Oct. 19, 2021; Jan. 30, 2024>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 84-2 (Measures against Persons Committing Fraudulent Acts)
(1) The Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency shall invalidate the relevant examination for a person who has committed a fraudulent act in an instructor qualification examination for specialized schools under Article 106 and a functional examiner qualification examination under Article 107, and a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency or the Korea Road Traffic Authority shall invalidate the relevant examination for a person who has committed a fraudulent act in a driver's license examination under Article 83. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020; Jan. 30, 2024>
(2) A person whose examination has been invalidated pursuant to paragraph (1) shall not take the relevant examination for two years from the date of the disposition.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Jan. 27, 2016]

Article 85 (Issuance of Driver's License, etc.)
(1) A person who intends to obtain a driver's license shall pass a driver's license examination.
(2) A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency shall issue a driver's license prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety to a person who has passed a driver's license examination. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Dec. 22, 2020>
(3) When a person who has obtained a driver's license additionally obtains a driver's license of another scope, a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency shall issue a driver's license by expanding the scope of the driver's license (referring to adding a scope to the existing driver's license). <Newly Inserted on Dec. 30, 2014; Dec. 22, 2020>
(4) When a person who has obtained a driver's license wants to narrow the scope of the driver's license (referring to deleting some scope from the existing driver's license scope), a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may issue a driver's license by narrowing the scope of the driver's license. <Newly Inserted on Dec. 30, 2014; Dec. 22, 2020>
(5) The effectiveness of a driver's license shall occur from the time the person or his/her agent is issued the driver's license pursuant to paragraphs (2) through (4). In such cases, even when the scope of a driver's license is expanded or narrowed pursuant to paragraph (3) or (4), the effectiveness of the revocation or suspension of a driver's license and the demerit points received or to be received pursuant to Article 93 shall be inherited as they are. <Amended on Dec. 30, 2014>
(6) A driver's license issued pursuant to paragraphs (2) through (4) shall not be lent to another person or borrowed for the purpose of fraudulent use, nor shall it be brokered. <Newly Inserted on Mar. 19, 2024>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 85-2 (Issuance of Mobile Driver's License and Confirmation of Driver's License, etc.)
(1) A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may additionally issue a mobile driver's license (referring to a driver's license installed in an encrypted form on a mobile communication terminal device under subparagraph 20 of Article 2 of the Telecommunications Business Act; the same shall apply hereinafter) when a person who intends to be issued a driver's license pursuant to Articles 85, 85-3, 86, and 87 applies for it. <Amended on Jan. 21, 2025>
(2) When national agencies, local governments, public organizations, social organizations, corporations, etc. need to check the name, photo, address, resident registration number, driver's license number, etc. of a driver's license holder in the following cases, they shall check with the driver's license (including the mobile driver's license pursuant to paragraph (1); the same shall apply hereinafter in Articles 87-2, 92, 93, 95 (1), 139, and 152) without attaching supporting documents: Provided, That this shall not apply where other laws provide for the method of identifying identity, etc.:
1. Checking the scope of driver's license and types of vehicles that can be driven pursuant to Article 80 (2);
2. Receiving civil petition documents or other documents;
3. Issuing a certificate recognizing qualification to a specific person;
4. Other cases where it is necessary to identify identity.
(3) A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may provide a driver's license confirmation service (referring to a service that allows checking the name, photo, address, resident registration number, driver's license number, and matters related to issuance pursuant to the main sentence of paragraph (2) other than each subparagraph using a mobile communication terminal device; the same shall apply hereinafter) using driver's license information linked to the Korean National Police Agency.
(4) When checking the name, photo, address, resident registration number, driver's license number, and matters related to issuance using the driver's license confirmation service, it shall be deemed that the name, photo, resident registration number, driver's license number, and matters related to issuance have been checked with the driver's license pursuant to paragraph (2).
(5) Necessary matters for the issuance and application of mobile driver's licenses and driver's license confirmation services shall be prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety.
[Wholly Amended on Jan. 30, 2024]

Article 85-3 (Issuance of Conditional Driver's License, etc.)
(1) A person who intends to receive a conditional driver's license shall pass a driver's license examination pursuant to Article 83.
(2) A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency shall issue a conditional driver's license prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety to a person who has passed a driver's license examination pursuant to paragraph (1).
(3) When a conditional driver's license is lost or worn out and unusable, it can be re-issued by applying to a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety.
(4) When the period of condition of a conditional driver's license issued pursuant to paragraph (2) has elapsed, the relevant condition shall be deemed extinguished.
(5) Article 87-2 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the identification of the person to be issued a conditional driver's license. In such cases, "driver's license" shall be construed as "conditional driver's license."
[This Article Newly Inserted on Jan. 30, 2024]

Article 86 (Re-issuance of Driver's License)
When a driver's license is lost or worn out and unusable, it can be re-issued by applying to a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Dec. 22, 2020>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 87 (Renewal of Driver's License and Regular Aptitude Test)
(1) A person who has obtained a driver's license shall have the driver's license renewed and issued by a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency as prescribed by Presidential Decree within the period according to the following classifications: <Amended on May 29, 2016; Mar. 27, 2018; Dec. 22, 2020; Aug. 14, 2025>
1. The first renewal period of a driver's license shall be within six months before and after the birthday of the year in which 10 years (five years for a person who is 65 years of age or older but under 75 years of age on the date of passing the driver's license examination, three years for a person 75 years of age or older, and three years for a person who cannot see with only one eye and has obtained a Class I ordinary license) have passed from the date of passing the driver's license examination pursuant to Article 83 (1) or (2);
2. Renewal periods other than subparagraph 1 shall be every 10 years (five years for a person who was 65 years of age or older but under 75 years of age on the previous renewal date of the driver's license, three years for a person 75 years of age or older, and three years for a person who cannot see with only one eye and has obtained a Class I ordinary license) from the previous renewal date of the driver's license, within six months before and after the birthday of the year.
(2) A person falling under any of the following shall receive a regular aptitude test conducted by the Korea Road Traffic Authority as prescribed by Presidential Decree during the renewal period of the driver's license pursuant to paragraph (1): <Amended on Jan. 30, 2024>
1. A person who has obtained a Class I driver's license;
2. A person who is 70 years of age or older during the renewal period of the driver's license among those who have obtained a Class II driver's license.
(3) No person falling under any of the following shall have the driver's license renewed and issued: <Amended on Mar. 27, 2018>
1. A person who has not received traffic safety education pursuant to Article 73 (5);
2. A person who has not received or has failed a regular aptitude test pursuant to paragraph (2).
(4) When a person who must have a driver's license renewed and issued or receive a regular aptitude test pursuant to paragraph (1) or (2) cannot have the driver's license renewed and issued or receive a regular aptitude test within the period due to reasons prescribed by Presidential Decree such as overseas travel or military service, he/she may receive it in advance or receive a postponement as prescribed by Presidential Decree.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 87-2 (Confirmation of Identity of Person to be Issued a Driver's License)
(1) When a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency intends to issue a driver's license pursuant to Articles 85 (2) through (4), 86, or 87 (1) (hereinafter referred to as "issuance of a driver's license" in this Article and Article 137-2 (2)), he/she may check whether the person is the person himself/herself through the resident registration card (including mobile resident registration card) or passport of the person who intends to be issued a driver's license, and other photos of identity certificates prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Amended on Jul. 26, 2017; Dec. 22, 2020; Dec. 26, 2023>
(2) If it is difficult to check whether the person is the person himself/herself by the method under paragraph (1), a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may check by comparing fingerprint information by an electronic method with the consent of the person who intends to be issued a driver's license. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
(3) If a person who intends to be issued a driver's license does not follow the identity confirmation procedure pursuant to paragraph (2), a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may refuse the issuance of a driver's license. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
[This Article Newly Inserted on Dec. 2, 2016]

Article 88 (Occasional Aptitude Test)
(1) Where a person who has obtained a Class I driver's license or a Class II driver's license (including a person who has obtained an international driver's license or a mutually recognized foreign license pursuant to Article 96 (1)) falls under reasons prescribed by Presidential Decree such as acquired physical disability that becomes an obstacle to safe driving, he/she shall receive an occasional aptitude test conducted by the Korea Road Traffic Authority. <Amended on Oct. 19, 2021; Jan. 30, 2024>
(2) The period and notification of the occasional aptitude test pursuant to paragraph (1) and other necessary matters for the implementation of the occasional aptitude test shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 89 (Notification of Personal Information Related to Occasional Aptitude Test)
(1) The head of an institution prescribed by Presidential Decree among institutions that have personal information on acquired physical disabilities, etc. of a person who must receive an occasional aptitude test pursuant to Article 88 (1) shall notify the Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency of personal information related to the occasional aptitude test.
(2) The content and notification method of personal information to be notified to the Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency pursuant to paragraph (1) and other necessary matters for the notification of personal information shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 90 (Measures for Persons Suspected of Mental Illness, etc.)
The Korea Road Traffic Authority may have a person falling under any of the following receive a detailed diagnosis by a specialist in the relevant field if there is a reasonable ground to recognize that the person falls under Article 82 (1) 2 or 5: <Amended on Jan. 30, 2024>
1. A person taking a driver's license examination pursuant to Article 83;
2. A person receiving an aptitude test pursuant to Article 87 (2) or 88 (1).
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 91 (Temporary Driving Certificate)
(1) A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may issue a temporary driving certificate as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety when a person falling under any of the following applies for the issuance of a temporary driving certificate: Provided, That in the case of subparagraph 2, it can substitute for the issuance of a temporary driving certificate by recording matters prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety on the driver's license in possession and issuing it: <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Dec. 22, 2020>
1. Where a person who has received a driver's license applies for re-issuance pursuant to Article 86;
2. Where a person applies for a regular aptitude test or renewal of a driver's license pursuant to Article 87, or applies for an occasional aptitude test pursuant to Article 88;
3. Where a person subject to a revocation or suspension of a driver's license pursuant to Article 93 submits the driver's license.
(2) A temporary driving certificate under paragraph (1) shall have the same effect as a driver's license during its valid period.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 92 (Duty to Carry and Present Driver's License, etc.)
(1) When driving a motor vehicle, etc., one shall carry any of the following driver's licenses, etc.: <Amended on Jun. 9, 2020; Jan. 12, 2021; Oct. 19, 2021>
1. A driver's license, an international driver's license or a mutually recognized foreign license pursuant to Article 96 (1), or a construction machinery operator's license pursuant to the Construction Machinery Management Act (hereinafter referred to as "driver's license, etc.");
2. Any of the following certificates substituting for a driver's license, etc.:
(a) A temporary driving certificate pursuant to Article 91;
(b) A notice of payment of a fine or a summons pursuant to Article 138;
(c) A summons pursuant to Article 143 (1).
(2) A driver shall comply when a police officer requests the presentation of a driver's license, etc. under paragraph (1) or a certificate substituting for it for traffic safety or maintenance of traffic order during driving, or asks questions for confirmation of the driver's identity and driver's license.
(3) No one shall fraudulently use a mobile driver's license in the name of another person. <Newly Inserted on Jan. 30, 2024>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 93 (Revocation/Suspension of Driver's License)
(1) A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may revoke a driver's license (including a conditional driver's license but excluding a practice driver's license; the same shall apply hereinafter in this Article) or suspend the effectiveness of a driver's license within the scope of one year according to the criteria prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety if a person who has obtained a driver's license falls under any of the following: Provided, That in the case of falling under subparagraphs 2, 3, 3-2, 4, 4-2, 7, 8, 8-2, 9 (excluding cases where the regular aptitude test period has passed), 14, 16, 17, and 20 through 23, the driver's license must be revoked (the scope of driver's license to be revoked in the case of falling under subparagraph 8-2 shall be limited to the driver's license obtained by the driver through false or other fraudulent means), and in the case of falling under subparagraph 18, the driver's license must be revoked or suspended within the scope of one year at the request of the head of a relevant administrative agency unless there is a justifiable reason: <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Dec. 30, 2014; Aug. 11, 2015; Jan. 27, 2016; Jul. 26, 2017; Mar. 27, 2018; Dec. 24, 2018; Jun. 9, 2020; Dec. 22, 2020; Jan. 12, 2021; Oct. 24, 2023; Feb. 13, 2024; Mar. 19, 2024; Dec. 3, 2024; Apr. 1, 2025>
1. Where a person drives a motor vehicle, etc. in a state of intoxication in violation of Article 44 (1);
2. Where a person who has violated Article 44 (1), (2) (latter part), or (5) (limited to cases of driving a motor vehicle, etc.; the same shall apply hereinafter in this subparagraph and subparagraph 3) again violates paragraph (1) of the same Article and falls under the reasons for suspension of a driver's license;
3. Where a person fails to comply with the measurement of a police officer despite having reasonable ground to recognize that he/she is in a state of intoxication in violation of the latter part of Article 44 (2);
3-2. Where a person for whom there is a reasonable ground to recognize that he/she is in a state of intoxication after driving a motor vehicle, etc. engages in an act of interfering with breathalyzer test in violation of Article 44 (5);
4. Where a person drives a motor vehicle, etc. in a state where there is a concern that he/she cannot drive normally due to the influence of drugs in violation of Article 45 (1) (Provided, That cases of driving a personal mobility device are excluded);
4-2. Where a person fails to comply with the measurement of a police officer despite having reasonable ground to recognize that he/she is in a state where there is a concern that he/she cannot drive normally due to the influence of drugs in violation of the latter part of Article 45 (2);
5. Where a person engages in joint dangerous acts in violation of Article 46 (1);
5-2. Where a person engages in reckless driving in violation of Article 46-3;
5-3. Where a person drives a motor vehicle, etc. three times or more at a speed exceeding the maximum speed under Article 17 (1) and (2) by more than 100 kilometers per hour in violation of Article 17 (3);
6. Where a person fails to take necessary measures or report pursuant to Article 54 (1) or (2) after killing or injuring a person in a traffic accident;
7. Where a person falls under those who cannot obtain a driver's license pursuant to Article 82 (1) 2 through 5;
8. Where it is revealed that a person who cannot obtain a driver's license pursuant to Article 82 has obtained a driver's license, or has been issued a driver's license or a certificate substituting for it during the period of suspension of effectiveness of a driver's license;
8-2. Where a person has obtained a driver's license by false or other fraudulent means;
9. Where a person fails to receive a regular aptitude test under Article 87 (2) or 88 (1) or fails the aptitude test;
10. Where a person causes a traffic accident by intention or negligence while driving;
10-2. Where a person who has obtained a driver's license engages in an act of violating Article 258-2 (Special Injury), 261 (Special Violence), 284 (Special Threat), or 369 (Special Destruction) of the Criminal Act using a motor vehicle, etc.;
11. Where a person who has obtained a driver's license commits any of the following crimes by using a motor vehicle, etc. as a tool or place for the crime:
(a) Crimes under Articles 4 through 9 of the National Security Act and the crime of forging, destroying, or concealing evidence under Article 12 of the same Act;
(b) Any of the following crimes under the Criminal Act:
1) Murder, abandonment of a corpse, or arson;
2) Robbery, rape, or forcible indecency;
3) Kidnapping, inducement, or confinement;
4) Habitual theft (limited to cases of transporting stolen goods);
5) Traffic obstruction (limited to cases of violating with the power of an organization or a crowd);
(c) Crimes under Articles 8 through 10 of the Special Act on the Prevention of Insurance Fraud;
12. Where a person steals or robs another person's motor vehicle, etc.;
13. Where a person takes a driver's license examination under Article 83 on behalf of another person to help that person obtain a driver's license fraudulently;
14. Where a person assaults a police officer, etc. or a city/county official performing traffic enforcement duties under this Act;
15. Where a person lends his/her driver's license to another person or borrows another person's driver's license for the purpose of fraudulent use;
16. Where a person drives a motor vehicle (excluding motorcycles) that is not registered or has not obtained a temporary operation license pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Management Act;
17. Where there were reasons for revocation of a practice driver's license before obtaining a Class I ordinary license or a Class II ordinary license;
18. Where the head of a relevant administrative agency requests revocation or suspension of a driver's license according to other laws;
18-2. Where a person drives a truck in violation of Article 39 (1) or (4);
19. Where a person violates this Act or an order or disposition under this Act;
20. Where a person who has obtained a driver's license voluntarily returns the driver's license to a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency for the purpose of causing the driver's license to become ineffective: Provided, That cases where the driver's license to be made ineffective is subject to revocation or suspension or is during the period of suspension are excluded;
21. Where a person drives a motor vehicle, etc. equipped with an alcohol-ignition interlock without registering it with the City/Do Provincial Police Agency in violation of Article 50-3 (1);
22. Where a person drives a motor vehicle, etc. in which an alcohol-ignition interlock is not installed or an alcohol-ignition interlock that does not meet the installation standards is installed in violation of Article 50-3 (3);
23. Where a person drives a motor vehicle, etc. equipped with an alcohol-ignition interlock while knowing that the utility of the device has decreased due to dismantling, manipulation, or other methods in violation of Article 50-3 (4).
(2) To be used as a criterion when intending to revoke a driver's license or suspend the effectiveness of a driver's license pursuant to paragraph (1), a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may impose demerit points on a person who violates traffic regulations or causes a traffic accident according to the degree of violation and damage, as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety, and may revoke or suspend a driver's license as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety when the demerit points exceed a certain score during a period prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Dec. 22, 2020>
(3) A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency must revoke a practice driver's license when a person who has been issued a practice driver's license causes a traffic accident by intention or negligence while driving or violates this Act or an order or disposition under this Act: Provided, That this shall not apply in cases prescribed by Presidential Decree, such as where there is no fault attributable to the person himself/herself. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
(4) When a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency intends to revoke or suspend a driver's license pursuant to paragraph (1) or (2), or to revoke a practice driver's license pursuant to paragraph (3), he/she shall notify the party to the disposition of the content of the disposition and the deadline for submission of opinions, etc. in advance as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety, and when making the disposition, he/she shall notify the reason for the disposition and the period during which an administrative appeal can be filed, as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety: Provided, That in case of intending to revoke a driver's license for the reason of not receiving an aptitude test pursuant to Article 87 (2) or 88 (1), the prior and post notification of the disposition may be substituted by a conditional notification to the party to the disposition that the driver's license will be revoked if the aptitude test is not received by the expiration date of the day on which the aptitude test can be received, as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Dec. 22, 2020>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]
[Article 93 (1) which was determined unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court on May 25, 2017 was amended by Act No. 15530, Mar. 27, 2018.]
[Article 93 (1) which was determined unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court on Jun. 25, 2020 was amended by Act No. 17891, Jan. 12, 2021.]

Article 94 (Objection to Disposition of Driver's License)
(1) A person who has an objection to the revocation or suspension of a driver's license pursuant to Article 93 (1) or (2) or the revocation of a practice driver's license pursuant to paragraph (3) of the same Article may apply for an objection to the Commissioner of the City/Do Provincial Police Agency within 60 days from the date of receiving the disposition as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Dec. 22, 2020>
(2) A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency shall establish a Driver's License Administrative Disposition Objection Review Committee (hereinafter referred to as "Objection Review Committee") as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety to review objections pursuant to paragraph (1). <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Aug. 11, 2015; Jul. 26, 2017; Dec. 22, 2020>
(3) A person who has applied for an objection pursuant to paragraph (1) may request an administrative appeal pursuant to the Administrative Appeals Act regardless of the application for an objection. In such cases, a person who has applied for an objection and received the notification of the result (excluding a person who has requested an administrative appeal pursuant to the Administrative Appeals Act before being notified of the result) may request an administrative appeal pursuant to the Administrative Appeals Act within 90 days from the date of receiving the notification.
(4) Among the members of the Objection Review Committee, those who are not public officials shall be deemed public officials when applying Articles 129 through 132 of the Criminal Act. <Newly Inserted on Aug. 11, 2015>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 94-2 (Criminal Record Inquiry and Investigation Record Inquiry)
A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may perform criminal record inquiries and investigation record inquiries pursuant to Article 6 of the Act on the Lapse of Criminal Sentences to confirm whether a person falling under any of the subparagraphs of Article 82 (2) has received a confirmed judgment or disposition falling under the proviso of the same paragraph in connection with the violation of laws that became the reason for disqualification for a driver's license, and whether a person whose driver's license was revoked or suspended pursuant to Article 93 (1) or (2) has received a confirmed judgment of not guilty or a disposition of non-prosecution in connection with the violation of laws that became the cause of the disposition.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Jan. 12, 2021]

Article 95 (Return of Driver's License)
(1) When a person who has obtained a driver's license falls under any of the following, he/she shall return the driver's license (including electronic return in the case of a mobile driver's license; the same shall apply hereinafter in this Article) to the Commissioner of the City/Do Provincial Police Agency having jurisdiction over his/her address within seven days from the date the reason occurred (when submitting the driver's license to obtain a new driver's license in the case of subparagraphs 4 and 5): <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020; Jan. 30, 2024>
1. Where a person has received a revocation of a driver's license;
2. Where a person has received a suspension of effectiveness of a driver's license;
3. Where a person has lost his/her driver's license, had it re-issued, and then found the lost driver's license;
4. Where a person who has received a practice driver's license has received a Class I ordinary license or a Class II ordinary license;
5. Where a person has received a renewal of a driver's license.
(2) A police officer may directly collect (including electronic collection in the case of a mobile driver's license; the same shall apply hereinafter in this Article) the driver's license possessed by a person who has failed to return the driver's license in violation of paragraph (1). <Amended on Jan. 30, 2024>
(3) When a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency has received a driver's license pursuant to paragraph (1) 2 or has collected a driver's license from a person falling under paragraph (1) 2 pursuant to paragraph (2), he/she shall keep it and return it immediately after the suspension period ends. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

CHAPTER IX INTERNATIONAL DRIVER'S LICENSE

Article 96 (Driving of Motor Vehicles, etc. with International Driver's License or Mutually Recognized Foreign License)
(1) A person who has been issued a driver's license (hereinafter referred to as "international driver's license") according to a convention, agreement, or arrangement falling under any of subparagraphs 1 through 3 from a competent authority of a foreign country, or a foreign license (hereinafter referred to as "mutually recognized foreign license") recognized pursuant to subparagraph 4, may drive a motor vehicle, etc. with the international driver's license or the mutually recognized foreign license for one year from the date of entry into the country notwithstanding Article 80 (1). In such cases, the types of motor vehicles that can be driven shall be limited to those recorded in the international driver's license or the mutually recognized foreign license. <Amended on Oct. 24, 2017; Jun. 9, 2020; Jan. 12, 2021; Oct. 19, 2021>
1. Convention on Road Traffic signed in Geneva in 1949;
2. Convention on Road Traffic signed in Vienna in 1968;
3. A convention, agreement, or arrangement for mutual recognition of international driver's licenses between the Republic of Korea and a foreign country;
4. A convention, agreement, or arrangement for mutual recognition of driver's licenses issued by the other country between the Republic of Korea and a foreign country.
(2) A person who has been issued an international driver's license in a foreign country or a person who drives with a mutually recognized foreign license shall not drive a commercial vehicle pursuant to the Passenger Transport Service Act or the Trucking Transport Service Act: Provided, That this shall not apply where he/she drives a commercial vehicle for rental business leased in accordance with the Passenger Transport Service Act. <Amended on Oct. 19, 2021>
(3) A person who falls under the disqualification for a driver's license pursuant to Article 82 (2) and for whom the period according to each subparagraph of the same paragraph has not passed shall not drive a motor vehicle, etc. notwithstanding paragraph (1).
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]
[Title Amended on Oct. 19, 2021]

Article 97 (Prohibition of Driving Motor Vehicles, etc.)
(1) Where a person who drives a motor vehicle, etc. in the country with an international driver's license or a mutually recognized foreign license pursuant to Article 96 falls under any of the following, the Commissioner of the City/Do Provincial Police Agency having jurisdiction over his/her address may prohibit the driving of motor vehicles, etc. with the international driver's license or the mutually recognized foreign license within the scope of not exceeding one year according to the criteria prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Jun. 9, 2020; Dec. 22, 2020; Jan. 12, 2021; Oct. 19, 2021>
1. Where a person fails to receive an aptitude test under Article 88 (1) or fails the aptitude test;
2. Where a person causes a traffic accident by intention or negligence while driving;
3. Where a person who has the nationality of the Republic of Korea has had his/her driver's license revoked or suspended pursuant to Article 93 (1) or (2), and the period prescribed in each subparagraph of Article 82 (2) has not passed;
4. Where a person violates this Act or an order or disposition under this Act regarding the driving of motor vehicles, etc.
(2) A person whose driving of motor vehicles, etc. is prohibited pursuant to paragraph (1) shall submit the international driver's license or the mutually recognized foreign license without delay to the Commissioner of the City/Do Provincial Police Agency who prohibited the driving with the international driver's license or the mutually recognized foreign license. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020; Oct. 19, 2021>
(3) A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency shall return the international driver's license or the mutually recognized foreign license kept by him/her without delay if the person who received the prohibition disposition departs from the country during the prohibition period or if the prohibition period pursuant to paragraph (1) ends, upon the person's request for return. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020; Oct. 19, 2021>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 98 (Issuance of International Driver's License, etc.)
(1) A person who has obtained a driver's license pursuant to Article 80 shall apply to a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency to be issued an international driver's license according to the Convention on Road Traffic under Article 96 (1) 1 in order to drive outside the country. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
(2) The valid period of an international driver's license pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be one year from the date of issuance.
(3) An international driver's license issued pursuant to paragraph (1) shall lose its effectiveness when the domestic driver's license of the person who received it becomes ineffective or is revoked.
(4) When the domestic driver's license of a person who has been issued an international driver's license pursuant to paragraph (1) is suspended, its effectiveness shall be suspended during the suspension period.
(5) Necessary matters for the issuance of an international driver's license pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 98-2 (Restriction on Issuance of International Driver's License)
A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may refuse the issuance of an international driver's license if a person who intends to be issued an international driver's license pursuant to Article 98 has unpaid fines or negligence fines (referring to fines or negligence fines imposed for violating this Act; the same shall apply hereinafter in this Article): Provided, That this shall not apply where the person is within the payment period of fines pursuant to Article 164 (1) and (2) or the payment period of negligence fines as prescribed by Presidential Decree pursuant to Article 160. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
[This Article Newly Inserted on Mar. 27, 2018]

CHAPTER X AUTOMOBILE DRIVING SCHOOLS

Article 99 (Registration of Automobile Driving Schools)
A person who intends to establish and operate an automobile driving school (hereinafter referred to as "school") shall register with the Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency as prescribed by Presidential Decree, meeting necessary conditions such as facilities and equipment under Article 101 and instructor capacity and placement standards under Article 103. The same shall apply where he/she intends to change registered matters prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 100 (Conditional Registration of Schools)
(1) When registering a school pursuant to Article 99, a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may accept the registration of the school on the condition that facilities and equipment under Article 101 be provided within a period prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
(2) A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency shall revoke the registration if a person who has registered pursuant to paragraph (1) fails to provide facilities and equipment within the period under the same paragraph without a justifiable reason. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 101 (Facility Standards for Schools, etc.)
A school shall be equipped with facilities (including education and auxiliary facilities for persons with disabilities) and equipment necessary for education such as classrooms, functional training grounds, and auxiliary facilities according to the criteria prescribed by Presidential Decree.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 102 (Disqualification for Registration of Schools, etc.)
(1) No person falling under any of the following shall register a school pursuant to Article 99: <Amended on Aug. 11, 2015>
1. An adult ward;
2. A person who has been declared bankrupt and not yet reinstated;
3. A person for whom three years have not passed since the execution of a sentence of imprisonment without labor or heavier was completed or confirmed not to be executed, or a person who is in the period of suspension of execution of such a sentence;
4. A person whose qualification is suspended or lost by a court judgment;
5. An establisher or operator of a school for whom one year has not passed since the registration was revoked pursuant to Article 113 (1) 1, 5 through 12, and (2) and (4) of the same Article, or a person who intends to establish and operate a school at the same place within one year from the date the registration of the school was revoked;
6. A corporation that has a person falling under any of subparagraphs 1 through 5 among its officers.
(2) If a person who establishes and operates a school falls under any of the subparagraphs of paragraph (1), the registration shall lose its effectiveness: Provided, That in the case of falling under paragraph (1) 6, even if there is a person falling under the reason among the officers of the corporation, this shall not apply if the officer is dismissed or replaced with another person within three months from the date the reason occurred.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 103 (Instructors and Curriculum of Schools, etc.)
(1) Necessary matters concerning qualification requirements, capacity, and placement standards of instructors in charge of education at a school (referring to persons who provide education on statutes, knowledge, and skills concerning road traffic necessary for driving motor vehicles, etc.; the same shall apply hereinafter) shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.
(2) Necessary matters concerning the curriculum, education methods, and operation standards of a school shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 104 (Designation of Specialized Automobile Driving Schools, etc.)
(1) To raise the level of education on automobile driving and improve the quality of drivers, a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may designate a school registered pursuant to Article 99 that meets the following criteria as a specialized automobile driving school (hereinafter referred to as "specialized school") as prescribed by Presidential Decree: <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
1. Having a dean (referring to a person in charge of education on subjects and functions and school management of a specialized school; the same shall apply hereinafter) who meets the qualification requirements under Article 105: Provided, That if the person who establishes and operates the school meets the qualification requirements, he/she may hold the position of dean concurrently, and in such cases, an assistant dean shall be appointed to assist the dean;
2. Having instructors under Article 106 and functional examiners (referring to persons who perform functional examinations under Article 108; the same shall apply hereinafter) under Article 107 according to the criteria prescribed by Presidential Decree;
3. Being equipped with facilities and equipment meeting the criteria prescribed by Presidential Decree and facilities and equipment necessary for designation as a traffic safety education institution pursuant to Article 74 (2);
4. The operation of the specialized school, such as education methods and the driving ability of graduates, must meet the criteria prescribed by Presidential Decree.
(2) A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency shall not designate any of the following schools as a specialized school: <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
1. A school established and operated within three years from the date of revocation of registration by a person who established and operated a school or specialized school (hereinafter referred to as "school, etc.") whose registration was revoked pursuant to Article 113 (excluding paragraph (1) 2 through 4) (hereinafter referred to as "establisher/operator of school, etc.") or a person who was a dean or assistant dean;
2. A school established and operated at the same place within three years from the date of revocation of registration pursuant to Article 113 (excluding paragraph (1) 2 through 4).
(3) When a specialized school designated pursuant to paragraph (1) intends to change important matters prescribed by Presidential Decree, it shall obtain approval from the Commissioner of the City/Do Provincial Police Agency having jurisdiction over its location. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 105 (Deans of Specialized Schools, etc.)
A dean or assistant dean shall be a person who meets all of the following requirements: <Amended on Aug. 11, 2015; Feb. 13, 2024>
1. Deleted <Feb. 13, 2024>;
2. A person who has a career of working in road traffic-related tasks for three years or more (limited to management career), or a career of working in school, etc. operation and management tasks for three years or more, or a career of working in tasks prescribed by Presidential Decree such as education and examination of school, etc. for five years or more, and who does not fall under any of the following:
(a) A minor or an adult ward;
(b) A person who has been declared bankrupt and not yet reinstated;
(c) A person for whom two years (three years in case of violating any of the subparagraphs of Article 150) have not passed since the execution of a sentence of imprisonment without labor or heavier for violating this Act or other laws was completed (including cases deemed to be completed) or confirmed not to be executed;
(d) A person for whom three years have not passed since being sentenced to a fine for violating any of the subparagraphs of Article 150;
(e) A person who is in the period of suspension of execution of a sentence of imprisonment without labor or heavier;
(f) A person who has received a stay of execution of a sentence of imprisonment without labor or heavier and is in the stay period;
(g) A person whose qualification is lost or suspended by law or judgment;
(h) A person for whom two years have not passed since receiving a disciplinary dismissal disposition according to relevant laws such as the State Public Officials Act or the Police Officers Act;
3. In case of having been an establisher/operator, dean, or assistant dean of a school, etc. whose registration was revoked pursuant to Article 113 (1) 1, 5 through 12, and (2) and (4) of the same Article, a person for whom three years have passed since the date of revocation of registration.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 106 (Instructors of Specialized Schools)
(1) A person who intends to become an instructor of a specialized school shall pass an instructor qualification examination prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety and complete training education on automobile driving education at a professional institution designated by the Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017>
(2) The Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency shall issue an instructor qualification certificate to a person who has the qualifications under paragraph (1) as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017>
(3) An instructor qualification certificate issued pursuant to paragraph (2) shall not be lent to another person or borrowed for the purpose of fraudulent use, nor shall it be brokered. <Newly Inserted on Mar. 19, 2024>
(4) No person falling under any of the following shall become an instructor of a specialized school: <Amended on Feb. 13, 2024; Mar. 19, 2024>
1. A person falling under Article 76 (3) 2;
2. A person for whom three years have not passed since the instructor qualification certificate was revoked pursuant to paragraph (5);
3. A person who has not obtained a driver's license to drive a motor vehicle, etc. used for education to acquire functions necessary for driving motor vehicles, etc. and driving ability on roads pursuant to Article 83 (1) 4 and paragraph (2) of the same Article (hereinafter referred to as "functional education");
4. A person for whom two years have not passed since obtaining a driver's license to drive a motor vehicle used for functional education.
(5) A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may revoke the instructor's qualification or suspend the effectiveness of the qualification within the scope of one year according to the criteria prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety if a person issued an instructor qualification certificate pursuant to paragraph (2) falls under any of the following: Provided, That in the case of falling under any of subparagraphs 1 through 5, the qualification must be revoked, and subparagraphs 5 and 6 shall not apply to instructors in charge of education to obtain knowledge, etc. necessary for driving motor vehicles, etc. pursuant to Article 83 (1) 2 and 3: <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Dec. 22, 2020; Feb. 13, 2024; Mar. 19, 2024; Dec. 30, 2025>
1. Where the instructor qualification certificate was issued by false or other fraudulent means;
2. Where a person is sentenced to imprisonment without labor or heavier (including suspension of execution) for committing any of the following crimes:
(a) Crimes under Article 3 (1) of the Act on Special Cases concerning the Settlement of Traffic Accidents;
(b) Crimes under Articles 5-3, 5-11 (1), and 5-13 of the Act on the Aggravated Punishment of Specific Crimes;
(c) Sexual violence crimes under Article 2 of the Act on Special Cases concerning the Punishment, etc. of Sexual Crimes;
(d) Sexual crimes against children and adolescents under subparagraph 2 of Article 2 of the Act on the Protection of Children and Adolescents against Sexual Abuse;
3. Where education is conducted during the qualification suspension period of the instructor;
4. Where the instructor qualification certificate is lent to another person;
5. Where the driver's license to drive a motor vehicle used for functional education is revoked;
6. Where the driver's license to drive a motor vehicle used for functional education is suspended;
7. Where a fraudulent act is committed regarding the duties of an instructor;
8. Where automobile driving education is conducted for compensation in violation of Article 116 (1);
9. Where this Act or an order or disposition under this Act is otherwise violated.
(6) A dean of a specialized school shall not have a person who is not an instructor conduct academic education or functional education on automobile driving. <Amended on Mar. 19, 2024>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 107 (Functional Examiners)
(1) A person who intends to become a functional examiner shall pass a functional examiner qualification examination prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety and complete training education on automobile driving functional examination at a professional institution designated by the Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017>
(2) The Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency shall issue a functional examiner qualification certificate to a person who has completed training education pursuant to paragraph (1) as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017>
(3) A functional examiner qualification certificate issued pursuant to paragraph (2) shall not be lent to another person or borrowed for the purpose of fraudulent use, nor shall it be brokered. <Newly Inserted on Mar. 19, 2024>
(4) No person falling under any of the following shall become a functional examiner: <Amended on Feb. 13, 2024; Mar. 19, 2024>
1. Deleted <Feb. 13, 2024>;
2. A person falling under Article 76 (3) 2;
3. In case the functional examiner's qualification was revoked pursuant to paragraph (5), a person for whom three years have not passed since the date of revocation;
4. A person who has not obtained a driver's license to drive a motor vehicle used for functional examination or for whom three years have not passed since obtaining the driver's license.
(5) A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may revoke the functional examiner's qualification or suspend the effectiveness of the qualification within the scope of one year according to the criteria prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety if a functional examiner falls under any of the following: Provided, That in the case of falling under any of subparagraphs 1 through 6, the qualification must be revoked: <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Dec. 22, 2020; Feb. 13, 2024; Mar. 19, 2024>
1. Where the fact of passing a functional examination pursuant to Article 108 (4) was falsely certified;
2. Where the functional examiner qualification certificate was issued by false or other fraudulent means;
3. Where a person is sentenced to imprisonment without labor or heavier (including suspension of execution) for committing any of the following crimes:
(a) Crimes under Article 3 (1) of the Act on Special Cases concerning the Settlement of Traffic Accidents;
(b) Crimes under Articles 5-3, 5-11 (1), and 5-13 of the Act on the Aggravated Punishment of Specific Crimes;
(c) Sexual violence crimes under Article 2 of the Act on Special Cases concerning the Punishment, etc. of Sexual Crimes;
(d) Sexual crimes against children and adolescents under subparagraph 2 of Article 2 of the Act on the Protection of Children and Adolescents against Sexual Abuse;
4. Where a functional examination is conducted during the qualification suspension period of the functional examiner;
5. Where the functional examiner qualification certificate is lent to another person;
6. Where the driver's license to drive a motor vehicle used for functional examination is revoked;
7. Where the driver's license to drive a motor vehicle used for functional examination is suspended;
8. Where a fraudulent act is committed regarding the duties of a functional examiner;
9. Where this Act or an order or disposition under this Act is otherwise violated.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 108 (Functional Examination)
(1) A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may have a dean of a specialized school conduct an examination on driving functions or the ability to drive on roads pursuant to Article 83 (1) 4 and paragraph (2) of the same Article (hereinafter referred to as "functional examination") for trainees of the specialized school as prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
(2) A dean of a specialized school shall have a functional examiner conduct a functional examination for a person falling under any of the following as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety: <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017>
1. A person who has completed academic education and functional education to acquire functions necessary for driving motor vehicles, etc. pursuant to Article 83 (1) 4 (hereinafter referred to as "on-course functional education");
2. A person who has completed functional education to acquire the ability to drive on roads pursuant to Article 83 (2) (hereinafter referred to as "on-road driving education").
(3) A dean of a specialized school shall not have a person who is not a functional examiner conduct a functional examination.
(4) A functional examiner shall certify the fact of passing in writing to a person who has passed the functional examination he/she conducted, as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017>
(5) A dean of a specialized school shall issue a completion certificate or graduation certificate to a person for whom a functional examiner has certified the fact of passing in writing pursuant to paragraph (4), according to the type of functional examination, as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 109 (Training Education for Instructors, etc.)
(1) If deemed necessary to improve the quality of the following persons, a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may conduct training education as prescribed by Presidential Decree. In such cases, an establisher/operator of a school, etc. who has received notification of training education shall receive the education unless there is a special reason, and shall also take measures so that persons under subparagraphs 2 and 3 can receive training education: <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
1. Establisher/operator of a school, etc.;
2. Instructors of a school, etc.;
3. Functional examiners.
(2) An establisher/operator of a school, etc. shall post the personal information of instructors such as name, age, and career, and education subjects in the school, etc. as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 110 (Tuition Fees, etc.)
(1) An establisher/operator of a school, etc. may receive tuition fees, expenses for functional examination pursuant to Article 108, or usage fees (hereinafter referred to as "tuition fees, etc.") from trainees.
(2) An establisher/operator of a school, etc. shall determine tuition fees, etc. in consideration of education content and education hours and post the content in the school, etc. as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017>
(3) An establisher/operator of a school, etc. shall not receive an amount exceeding the tuition fees, etc. posted pursuant to paragraph (2).
(4) If a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency recognizes that the poor quality of school education is feared due to excessive lowering of tuition fees, etc., he/she may order to adjust them as prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 111 (Refund of Tuition Fees, etc.)
(1) An establisher/operator of a school, etc. shall take measures necessary for the protection of trainees, such as refunding tuition fees, etc. received from trainees or allowing trainees to transfer to another school, etc., when a trainee cannot continue to attend classes or when education cannot be continued due to revocation of registration, relocation, suspension of operation, or revocation of designation of the school, etc.
(2) Necessary matters for reasons for refund of tuition fees, etc. and refund amounts, and measures for trainee transfer, etc. pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.
(3) Where a trainee transfers to another school, etc. pursuant to paragraph (1), the education hours completed at the previous school, etc. shall be deemed to have been completed at the transferred school, etc.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 112 (Report on Suspension/Closure)
When an establisher/operator of a school, etc. closes the school or suspends operation for one month or more, he/she shall report the fact to the Commissioner of the City/Do Provincial Police Agency within seven days from the date of suspension or closure as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Dec. 22, 2020>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 113 (Administrative Dispositions against Schools, etc.)
(1) A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may revoke the registration or order the suspension of operation within the scope of one year according to the criteria prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety if a school, etc. falls under any of the following: Provided, That in the case of falling under subparagraph 1, the registration must be revoked: <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Dec. 22, 2020>
1. Where the registration pursuant to Article 99 or the designation pursuant to Article 104 (1) was made by false or other fraudulent means;
2. Where it comes to fall short of the facility standards under Article 101;
3. Where the school is not opened until two months have passed from the scheduled opening date without a justifiable reason;
4. Where the operation is suspended continuously for two months or more without a justifiable reason;
5. Where the school is operated by fraudulent means such as changing registered matters without making a change registration;
6. Where the placement standards for instructors pursuant to Article 103 (1) or the placement standards for functional examiners and instructors pursuant to Article 104 (1) 2 are violated;
7. Where education is conducted in violation of the curriculum, education methods, and operation standards pursuant to Article 103 (2) or 104 (1) 4, or the fact of education is falsely certified;
8. Where an establisher/operator of a school, etc. fails to receive training education or fails to take measures so that instructors and functional examiners of the school, etc. can receive training education in violation of the latter part of Article 109 (1);
9. Where data is not submitted or a report is not made or false data is submitted or a false report is made pursuant to Article 141 (2);
10. Where the entry and inspection of relevant public officials pursuant to Article 141 (2) is refused, obstructed, or evaded;
11. Where an order for improvement of facilities and equipment or other necessary matters pursuant to Article 141 (2) is not followed;
12. Where this Act or an order or disposition under this Act is otherwise violated.
(2) A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may revoke the registration of a school or order the suspension of operation within the scope of one year according to the criteria prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety if a specialized school falls under any of the following: <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Dec. 22, 2020; Mar. 19, 2024>
1. Where traffic safety education pursuant to Article 74 (1) is not conducted;
2. Where it falls under the reasons for revocation of designation of a traffic safety education institution or operation suspension disposition under Article 79;
3. Where the operation of the specialized school does not meet the criteria under Article 104 (1) 4;
4. Where approval for change of important matters is not obtained in violation of Article 104 (3);
5. Where a dean has a person who is not an instructor conduct academic education or functional education in violation of Article 106 (6);
6. Where a person who has not completed academic and functional education on automobile driving or a person who has not completed on-road driving education is allowed to take a functional examination in violation of Article 108 (2);
7. Where a dean has a person who is not a functional examiner conduct a functional examination in violation of Article 108 (3);
8. Where a functional examiner falsely certifies the fact of passing a functional examination in violation of Article 108 (4);
9. Where a dean issues a completion certificate or graduation certificate to a person who has not passed a functional examination in violation of Article 108 (5).
(3) A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may revoke the designation according to the criteria prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety if a specialized school falls under any of the following: <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Dec. 22, 2020>
1. Where it comes to fall short of the designation criteria under Article 104 (1) 1 through 3;
2. Where the operation of the specialized school is suspended pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2).
(4) A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may revoke the registration or order an additional suspension of operation within the scope of one year according to the criteria prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety if a school, etc. continues to operate in violation of an operation suspension order pursuant to paragraph (1) or (2). <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Dec. 22, 2020>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 114 (Hearing)
When a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency intends to revoke the registration or designation of a school, etc. pursuant to Article 113, he/she shall hold a hearing. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 115 (Measures against Schools, etc.)
(1) A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may take the following measures to close a school, etc. or stop its operation if a person establishes and operates a school, etc. without making a registration pursuant to Article 99 or receiving a designation pursuant to Article 104 (1), or if a school, etc. whose registration was revoked or which received an operation suspension disposition pursuant to Article 113 continues to conduct automobile driving education: <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
1. Removal of the signboard or other marks of the school, etc., or installation of structures to restrict the entry of trainees;
2. Attaching a notice stating that the school, etc. is a facility that has not made a registration or received a designation, or is a facility that has received an administrative disposition pursuant to Article 113.
(2) Measures pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be taken within the minimum scope necessary to achieve the purpose.
(3) A relevant public official who takes measures pursuant to paragraph (1) shall carry a certificate showing his/her authority and show it to relevant persons.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 116 (Prohibition of Unregistered Paid Driving Education)
(1) No person who has not registered a school pursuant to Article 99 shall engage in any of the following acts for compensation: <Amended on Dec. 30, 2025>
1. Automobile driving education conducted outside a school, etc. or inside a school, etc. by borrowing the name of the school, etc.;
2. Act of providing facilities for automobile driving practice and allowing the use of the facilities.
(2) No one shall broker the receipt of automobile driving education pursuant to paragraph (1) 1 or broker the use of automobile driving practice facilities pursuant to paragraph (2) of the same paragraph. <Newly Inserted on Dec. 30, 2025>
(3) No one shall advertise (referring to advertisement under subparagraph 2 of Article 2 of the Act on Fair Labeling and Advertising) matters falling under any of the subparagraphs of paragraph (1). <Newly Inserted on Dec. 30, 2025>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]
[Date of Enforcement: Jul. 1, 2026] Article 116

Article 117 (Prohibition of Use of Similar Names, etc.)
(1) No person who has not registered a school pursuant to Article 99 shall post a business name or advertise using a name similar to a school, etc.
(2) No person who has not registered a school pursuant to Article 99 shall apply marks similar to on-road driving education vehicles of a school, etc. to a motor vehicle he/she owns or leases.
(3) A school that is not a specialized school under this Act shall not use the term "specialized school" or similar terms in its name.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 118 (Deeming Deans of Specialized Schools, etc. as Public Officials)
Deans and assistant deans of specialized schools shall be deemed public officials when applying the penalties according to the Criminal Act or other laws regarding functional examination and attendance check tasks, functional examiners regarding functional examination tasks, and instructors regarding attendance check tasks.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 119 (Association of Specialized Automobile Driving Schools)
(1) Establishers of specialized schools may establish the Association of Specialized Automobile Driving Schools (hereinafter referred to as "Association") for the sound cultivation and development of specialized schools, mutual cooperation among specialized schools, and promotion of common interests.
(2) The Association shall be a corporation.
(3) The articles of incorporation of the Association shall include the following matters:
1. Purpose;
2. Name;
3. Location of the main office;
4. Matters concerning the board of directors and members;
5. Matters concerning officers and employees;
6. Matters concerning business;
7. Matters concerning property and accounting;
8. Matters concerning amendment of the articles of incorporation.
(4) The articles of incorporation under paragraph (3) shall obtain authorization from the Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency. The same shall apply where the articles of incorporation are amended.
(5) The Association shall perform the following business:
1. Research for the development of the specialized school system;
2. Development of education facilities and textbooks for specialized schools;
3. Research and development of education and functional examination methods conducted at specialized schools;
4. Education, training, and welfare promotion business for deans, assistant deans, functional examiners, and instructors of specialized schools;
5. Matters entrusted by the Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency;
6. Other business necessary for achieving the purpose of the Association.
(6) The Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency shall supervise the Association as prescribed by Presidential Decree and may issue necessary orders for the sound operation of the Association.
(7) Except as provided for in this Act regarding the Association, the provisions concerning incorporated associations in the Civil Act shall apply mutatis mutandis.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

CHAPTER XI Deleted <Jan. 30, 2024>
Article 120 Deleted <Jan. 30, 2024>
Article 121 Deleted <Jan. 30, 2024>
Article 122 Deleted <Jan. 30, 2024>
Article 123 Deleted <Jan. 30, 2024>
Article 124 Deleted <Jan. 30, 2024>
Article 125 Deleted <Jan. 30, 2024>
Article 126 Deleted <Jul. 23, 2010>
Article 127 Deleted <Jul. 23, 2010>
Article 128 Deleted <Jul. 23, 2010>
Article 129 Deleted <Jan. 30, 2024>
Article 129-2 Deleted <Jan. 30, 2024>
Article 129-3 Deleted <Jan. 30, 2024>
Article 130 Deleted <Jan. 30, 2024>
Article 131 Deleted <Jan. 30, 2024>
Article 132 Deleted <Jan. 30, 2024>
Article 133 Deleted <Jul. 23, 2010>
Article 134 Deleted <Jan. 30, 2024>
Article 135 Deleted <Jul. 23, 2010>
Article 136 Deleted <Jan. 30, 2024>

CHAPTER XII SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS

Article 137 (Management and Provision of Information on Drivers, etc.)
(1) The Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency shall establish and operate a computer system to integrally maintain and manage information on drivers' driver's licenses, traffic accidents, and violations of traffic regulations.
(2) Commissioners of City/Do Provincial Police Agencies and Chiefs of Police Stations shall register and manage information on drivers' driver's licenses, traffic accidents, and violations of traffic regulations, and the Korea Road Traffic Authority shall register and manage information on driver's licenses in the computer system pursuant to paragraph (1). <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020; Jan. 30, 2024>
(3) A driver himself/herself or his/her agent may apply for a certificate confirming the information under paragraph (1) to a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency, a Chief of a Police Station, or the Korea Road Traffic Authority as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Dec. 22, 2020; Jan. 30, 2024>
(4) When a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency, a Chief of a Police Station, or the Korea Road Traffic Authority receives an application pursuant to paragraph (3), he/she shall certify with a document confirming information on the driver as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Dec. 22, 2020; Jan. 30, 2024>
(5) The Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency or the Korea Road Traffic Authority may confirm the authenticity of a driver's license using the computer system pursuant to paragraph (1) when there is a request for confirmation of the authenticity. <Newly Inserted on Dec. 30, 2014; Jan. 30, 2024>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 137-2 (Request for Data, etc.)
(1) A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may request the Minister of Justice to provide information on the place of stay or residence of a registered alien or an overseas Korean with foreign nationality who holds a driver's license through the Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency when necessary to confirm it. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
(2) A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may request the Minister of Justice to provide fingerprint information of a registered alien or an overseas Korean with foreign nationality who intends to be issued a driver's license through the Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency when necessary to confirm his/her identity. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
(3) Fees or commissions for the use of information pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2) shall be exempted.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Dec. 2, 2016]

Article 138 (Keeping of Driver's Licenses, etc.)
(1) A police officer may issue a notice of payment of a fine or a summons pursuant to Article 164 on the scene and request the submission of a driver's license, etc. and keep it when a driver of a motor vehicle, etc. falls under any of the following. In such cases, the fact of keeping the driver's license, etc. shall be recorded in the notice of payment of a fine or the summons. <Amended on Oct. 19, 2021>
1. Where a traffic accident is caused;
2. Where it is recognized that the driver is subject to a revocation or suspension of a driver's license pursuant to Article 93;
3. Where a person holding an international driver's license issued in a foreign country or a mutually recognized foreign license pursuant to Article 96 commits a violation under Article 162 (1).
(2) A notice of payment of a fine or a summons under paragraph (1) shall have the same effect as a driver's license, etc. (excluding practice driver's licenses) until the payment deadline of the fine or the date of appearance.
(3) When a self-governing police officer has kept a driver's license, etc. pursuant to paragraph (1), he/she shall notify the fact to the Chief of the jurisdiction Police Station without delay, attaching the driver's license, etc.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 138-2 (Support for Expenses)
(1) The State may subsidize all or part of the expenses necessary for the installation and management of child protection zones under Article 12 and protection zones for seniors and persons with disabilities under Article 12-2 to local governments within the scope of its budget: Provided, That it shall preferentially subsidize protection zones with high traffic accident rates for children, seniors, or persons with disabilities. <Amended on Aug. 11, 2015; Oct. 16, 2018>
(2) The State or local governments may support all or part of the expenses necessary for the installation and operation of child getting-off check devices pursuant to Article 53 (5). <Newly Inserted on Oct. 16, 2018>
[This Article Newly Inserted on Jul. 23, 2010]
[Title Amended on Oct. 16, 2018]

Article 139 (Fees)
(1) A person falling under any of the following shall pay a fee as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety: Provided, That when the Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency or a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency has had the tasks performed on his/her behalf pursuant to Article 147, he/she shall pay the fee determined and publicly announced by the Korea Road Traffic Authority performing the tasks with the approval of the Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency to the Korea Road Traffic Authority: <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Dec. 30, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Dec. 22, 2020; Jan. 30, 2024>
1. A person who applies for designation of an emergency vehicle pursuant to Article 2 (22);
2. A person who applies for permission for passage of a vehicle exceeding the width of a lane pursuant to Article 14 (3);
3. A person who applies for permission for riding or loading exceeding safety standards pursuant to Article 39;
4. A person who applies for designation of a traffic safety education institution pursuant to Article 74;
5. A person who applies for issuance or re-issuance of a driver's license pursuant to Articles 85 through 87;
6. Deleted <Dec. 30, 2014>;
7. A person who applies for issuance of an international driver's license pursuant to Article 98;
8. A person who applies for designation of a specialized school pursuant to Article 104;
9. A person who takes a qualification examination for instructors or functional examiners pursuant to Articles 106 and 107 or applies for issuance (including re-issuance) of the qualification certificate;
10. Deleted <Dec. 30, 2014>;
11. Deleted <Mar. 27, 2018>.
(2) A person falling under any of the following shall pay a fee determined and publicly announced by the Korea Road Traffic Authority with the approval of the Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency: <Amended on Jan. 30, 2024>
1. A person who applies for taking a driver's license examination pursuant to Article 83;
2. A person who applies for a regular aptitude test or an occasional aptitude test pursuant to Articles 87 and 88, or applies for a postponement of an aptitude test.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 140 (Tuition Fees of Traffic Safety Education Institutions)
A person who provides education pursuant to Article 56-3 (1) or 73 may receive tuition fees from trainees. <Amended on Oct. 24, 2017; Mar. 27, 2018; Mar. 19, 2024>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 141 (Guidance and Supervision, etc.)
(1) A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency shall perform appropriate guidance and supervision for the sound cultivation and development of traffic safety education institutions or schools, etc. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
(2) A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may, if deemed necessary, have the following persons submit data or report on matters concerning facilities, equipment, and education or various statistical data, or have relevant public officials enter the relevant facilities to inspect facilities, equipment, account books, and other relevant documents. In such cases, the Commissioner of the City/Do Provincial Police Agency may issue orders for improvement of facilities and equipment and other matters deemed necessary: <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
1. Head of a traffic safety education institution;
2. Establisher/operator of a school, etc.;
3. Dean of a specialized school pursuant to Article 104 (1) 1.
(3) A relevant public official who enters and inspects a traffic safety education institution or school, etc. pursuant to paragraph (2) shall carry a certificate showing his/her authority and show it to relevant persons.
(4) Deleted <Jan. 30, 2024>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 142 (Relationship with Administrative Litigation)
An administrative litigation against a disposition under this Act cannot be filed without going through the adjudication of an administrative appeal against the disposition.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 143 (Enforcement by City/County Officials on Exclusive Lane Operation, etc.)
(1) A city/county official may issue a notice specifically stating the gist of the violation and the date and place of appearance to the Chief of a Police Station (referring to the Governor of Jeju Special Self-Governing Province in the case of Jeju Special Self-Governing Province; the same shall apply hereinafter in this Article) on the scene, and request the submission of a driver's license and keep it, if there is a driver who violates the duty to prohibit passage in exclusive lanes pursuant to Article 15 (3), the duty to yield the course to emergency vehicles pursuant to Article 29 (4) and (5), or the duty to prohibit stopping and parking pursuant to Articles 32 through 34, as prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. In such cases, the notice shall have the same effect as a driver's license until the date of appearance. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017>
(2) When a city/county official has issued a notice pursuant to paragraph (1), he/she shall notify the fact to the Chief of the jurisdiction Police Station without delay, attaching the driver's license.
(3) The Chief of a Police Station shall confirm the violation when he/she receives a notification pursuant to paragraph (2).
(4) A city/county official shall not abuse his/her official authority by departing from the original purpose when issuing a notice or taking measures pursuant to paragraph (1).
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 144 (Establishment of Traffic Safety Rules and Education Guidelines, etc.)
(1) The Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency shall establish and disseminate traffic safety rules including the following matters: <Amended on Dec. 30, 2014>
1. Provisions of statutes concerning the safety of road traffic;
2. Knowledge necessary for the handling method of motor vehicles, etc., safe driving, and eco-friendly economic driving;
3. Tips for clearing the way for emergency vehicles;
4. Other necessary matters for preventing and removing traffic dangers and obstructions on roads to ensure the safety and smooth flow of traffic.
(2) The Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency shall establish and announce guidelines for traffic safety education including the following matters to enable a person who provides education on traffic safety to persons traveling on a road to conduct education effectively and systematically: <Amended on Dec. 30, 2014>
1. Matters concerning safe driving and eco-friendly economic driving of motor vehicles, etc.;
2. Matters concerning prevention and handling of traffic accidents;
3. Matters concerning the safe passage of pedestrians.

4. Matters concerning the prevention of traffic accidents for children, persons with disabilities, and seniors;
5. Matters concerning tips for clearing the way for emergency vehicles;
6. Other necessary matters for effective traffic safety education.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 144-2 (Investigation and Utilization of Traffic Safety Indicators)
(1) To objectively measure the level of traffic safety by region, the Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency may develop, investigate, and prepare traffic safety indicators (hereinafter referred to as "traffic safety indicators") calculated based on the number of traffic accidents and casualties, and publicly announce the results.
(2) Heads of local governments may reflect the results announced pursuant to paragraph (1) in establishing traffic policies.
(3) Necessary matters for investigation items and methods of traffic safety indicators shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Jan. 7, 2025]

Article 145 (Provision of Traffic Information)
(1) The Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency shall collect and analyze information necessary to ensure traffic safety and smooth flow and promptly provide the results to the general public. <Amended on Jan. 17, 2008; Mar. 19, 2024>
(2) The Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency may establish and operate a traffic information center for the collection, analysis, and provision of traffic information under paragraph (1), and may designate an exclusive institution for the efficient operation of the traffic information center. <Newly Inserted on Mar. 19, 2024>
(3) The Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency may revoke the designation of an exclusive institution or order the suspension of all or part of its business within the scope of six months if a person designated pursuant to paragraph (2) falls under any of the following: Provided, That in the case of falling under subparagraph 1, the designation must be revoked: <Newly Inserted on Mar. 19, 2024>
1. Where the designation was obtained by false or other fraudulent means;
2. Where it comes to fall short of the designation criteria under paragraph (4).
(4) Necessary matters for the establishment and operation of a traffic information center, designation and operation of an exclusive institution pursuant to paragraph (2), and revocation of designation and suspension of business pursuant to paragraph (3) shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Newly Inserted on Mar. 19, 2024>

Article 145-2 (Metropolitan Traffic Information Projects)
The Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency may have each Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency promote projects to collect metropolitan traffic information and provide the results of analysis linked with traffic information of other regions to the general public in consultation with Mayors, etc. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
[This Article Newly Inserted on Jan. 17, 2008]

Article 146 (Merit Marks for Accident-free or Meritorious Drivers)
(1) The Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency may award merit marks for accident-free drivers or meritorious drivers to persons who have obtained a driver's license and have not caused a traffic accident for a certain period while being engaged in driving, and to persons who have received a commendation from the head of a police agency according to statutes concerning government commendations.
(2) Types of merit marks, targets of award, and other necessary matters for awarding merit marks pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be prescribed by Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 147 (Delegation and Entrustment, etc.)
(1) Mayors, etc. may delegate or entrust part of their authority or affairs under this Act to a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency or a Chief of a Police Station as prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
(2) The Special Metropolitan City Mayor and Metropolitan City Mayors may delegate part of their authority under this Act to the heads of Gus (referring to heads of autonomous Gus) and County Governors within their jurisdiction as prescribed by Presidential Decree.
(3) A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may delegate part of his/her authority or affairs under this Act to the jurisdiction Chief of a Police Station or entrust them to professional education institutions or professional research institutions related to traffic as prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
(4) A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency or a Chief of a Police Station may entrust part of the affairs delegated or entrusted from Mayors, etc. pursuant to paragraph (1) to professional education institutions or professional research institutions related to traffic as prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020>
(5) A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may have the Korea Road Traffic Authority perform or be entrusted with part of the affairs related to driver's licenses under this Act as prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Amended on Dec. 22, 2020; Oct. 24, 2023; Jan. 30, 2024>
(6) The Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency may have the Korea Road Traffic Authority perform qualification examinations and issuance of qualification certificates for instructors and functional examiners under Articles 106 and 107 on his/her behalf. <Amended on Jan. 30, 2024>
(7) The Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency may entrust affairs concerning the development, investigation, preparation, and announcement of traffic safety indicators to the Korea Road Traffic Authority. <Newly Inserted on Jan. 7, 2025>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 147-2 (Review of Regulations)
The Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency shall review the feasibility of abolition, relaxation, or maintenance of the following matters every three years (referring to before the same day as the base date of every third year) based on the following base dates:
1. Designation and management of child protection zones under Article 12: January 1, 2014;
2. Designation and management of protection zones for seniors and persons with disabilities under Article 12-2: January 1, 2014.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Aug. 11, 2015]

Article 147-3 (Designation of International Cooperation Exclusive Institutions)
(1) The Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency may designate an institution exclusively in charge of affairs such as international exchange of technology, international standardization, and international joint research and development for international cooperation related to road traffic.
(2) The Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency may revoke the designation of an exclusive institution or order the suspension of all or part of its business within the scope of six months if a person designated pursuant to paragraph (1) falls under any of the following: Provided, That in the case of falling under subparagraph 1, the designation must be revoked:
1. Where the designation was obtained by false or other fraudulent means;
2. Where it comes to fall short of the designation criteria under paragraph (3).
(3) Necessary matters for the designation and operation of an exclusive institution pursuant to paragraph (1) and revocation of designation and suspension of business pursuant to paragraph (2) shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Mar. 19, 2024]

CHAPTER XIII PENAL PROVISIONS

Article 148 (Penalties)
A person who fails to take measures in case of a traffic accident pursuant to Article 54 (1) (excluding a person who fails to provide personal information to the victim pursuant to Article 54 (1) 2 when it is clear that only a stopped or parked vehicle was damaged) shall be punished by imprisonment with labor for not more than 5 years or by a fine not exceeding 15 million won. <Amended on Dec. 2, 2016>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 148-2 (Penalties)
(1) A person who has been sentenced to a punishment of a fine or heavier for violating Article 44 (1), (2), or (5) (limited to cases of driving a motor vehicle, etc. or a tram; Provided, That cases of driving a personal mobility device are excluded; the same shall apply hereinafter in this Article) and who again violates paragraph (1), (2), or (5) of the same Article (including those whose sentences have lapsed) within 10 years from the date the sentence was confirmed shall be punished according to the following classifications: <Amended on Jan. 3, 2023; Dec. 3, 2024>
1. A person who violates Article 44 (2) or (5) shall be punished by imprisonment with labor for not less than 1 year but not more than 6 years or by a fine of not less than 5 million won but not more than 30 million won;
2. A person who violates Article 44 (1) and whose blood alcohol concentration is 0.2 percent or more shall be punished by imprisonment with labor for not less than 2 years but not more than 6 years or by a fine of not less than 10 million won but not more than 30 million won;
3. A person who violates Article 44 (1) and whose blood alcohol concentration is not less than 0.03 percent but less than 0.2 percent shall be punished by imprisonment with labor for not less than 1 year but not more than 5 years or by a fine of not less than 5 million won but not more than 20 million won.
(2) A person falling under any of the following shall be punished by imprisonment with labor for not less than 1 year but not more than 5 years or by a fine of not less than 5 million won but not more than 20 million won: <Amended on Dec. 3, 2024>
1. A person who fails to comply with the measurement of a police officer pursuant to Article 44 (2) while there is a reasonable ground to recognize that he/she is in a state of intoxication (limited to cases of driving a motor vehicle, etc. or a tram);
2. A person for whom there is a reasonable ground to recognize that he/she is in a state of intoxication and who engages in an act of interfering with breathalyzer test after driving a motor vehicle, etc. or a tram in violation of Article 44 (5).
(3) A person who drives a motor vehicle, etc. or a tram in a state of intoxication in violation of Article 44 (1) shall be punished according to the following classifications:
1. A person whose blood alcohol concentration is 0.2 percent or more: imprisonment with labor for not less than 2 years but not more than 5 years or a fine of not less than 10 million won but not more than 20 million won;
2. A person whose blood alcohol concentration is not less than 0.08 percent but less than 0.2 percent: imprisonment with labor for not less than 1 year but not more than 2 years or a fine of not less than 5 million won but not more than 10 million won;
3. A person whose blood alcohol concentration is not less than 0.03 percent but less than 0.08 percent: imprisonment with labor for not more than 1 year or a fine not exceeding 5 million won.
(4) A person who has been sentenced to a punishment of a fine or heavier for violating Article 45 (1) [limited to cases of driving a motor vehicle, etc. (excluding personal mobility devices) or a tram in a state where there is a concern that he/she cannot drive normally due to the influence of drugs; the same shall apply hereinafter in this paragraph] or paragraph (2) of the same Article and who again violates paragraph (1) or (2) of the same Article (including those whose sentences have lapsed) within 10 years from the date the sentence was confirmed shall be punished according to the following classifications: <Newly Inserted on Apr. 1, 2025>
1. A person who violates Article 45 (1) shall be punished by imprisonment with labor for not less than 2 years but not more than 6 years or by a fine of not less than 10 million won but not more than 30 million won;
2. A person who violates Article 45 (2) shall be punished by imprisonment with labor for not less than 1 year but not more than 6 years or by a fine of not less than 5 million won but not more than 30 million won.
(5) A person who drives a motor vehicle, etc. (excluding personal mobility devices) or a tram in a state where there is a concern that he/she cannot drive normally due to the influence of drugs in violation of Article 45 (1) shall be punished by imprisonment with labor for not more than 5 years or by a fine not exceeding 20 million won. <Amended on Apr. 1, 2025>
(6) A person who fails to comply with the measurement of a police officer pursuant to Article 45 (2) while there is a reasonable ground to recognize that he/she is in a state where there is a concern that he/she cannot drive normally due to the influence of drugs shall be punished by imprisonment with labor for not more than 5 years or by a fine not exceeding 20 million won. <Newly Inserted on Apr. 1, 2025>
[Wholly Amended on Dec. 24, 2018]
[Article 148-2 (1) which was determined unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court on May 26, 2022 was amended by Act No. 19158, Jan. 3, 2023.]
[Article 148-2 (1) which was determined unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court on Aug. 31, 2022 was amended by Act No. 19158, Jan. 3, 2023.]
[Article 148-2 (1) which was determined unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court on Nov. 25, 2021 was amended by Act No. 19158, Jan. 3, 2023.]

Article 148-3 (Penalties)
(1) A person who dismantles or manipulates an alcohol-ignition interlock or engages in an act that impairs its utility by other methods in violation of Article 50-3 (4) shall be punished by imprisonment with labor for not more than 3 years or by a fine not exceeding 30 million won.
(2) A person who drives a motor vehicle, etc. equipped with an alcohol-ignition interlock while knowing that the device has been dismantled, manipulated, or its utility has decreased in violation of Article 50-3 (4) shall be punished by imprisonment with labor for not more than 1 year or by a fine not exceeding 3 million won.
(3) A person who blows breath into the device or starts a motor vehicle, etc. equipped with an alcohol-ignition interlock by other fraudulent methods so that a person who has obtained a conditional driver's license can drive the vehicle on behalf of that person in violation of Article 50-3 (5) shall be punished by imprisonment with labor for not more than 1 year or by a fine not exceeding 3 million won.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Oct. 24, 2023]

Article 149 (Penalties)
(1) A person who manipulates traffic signals at will or removes, relocates, or destroys traffic safety facilities in violation of Article 68 (1) shall be punished by imprisonment with labor for not more than 3 years or by a fine not exceeding 7 million won.
(2) A person who causes traffic danger on a road by the act under paragraph (1) shall be punished by imprisonment with labor for not more than 5 years or by a fine not exceeding 15 million won.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 150 (Penalties)
A person falling under any of the following shall be punished by imprisonment with labor for not more than 2 years or by a fine not exceeding 5 million won: <Amended on Jan. 30, 2024; Mar. 19, 2024; Dec. 30, 2025>
1. A person who engages in joint dangerous acts or leads them in violation of Article 46 (1) or (2);
2. A traffic safety education instructor who falsely reports the results of individual attendance pursuant to Article 77 (1);
3. The head of a traffic safety education institution who issues an education confirmation certificate to a person who has not received traffic safety education or who does not meet the criteria in violation of Article 77 (2);
3-2. A person who lends or borrows a driver's license, instructor qualification certificate, or functional examiner qualification certificate or brokers it in violation of Article 85 (6), 106 (3), or 107 (3);
3-3. A person who fraudulently uses a mobile driver's license in the name of another person in violation of Article 92 (3);
4. A person who registers a school pursuant to Article 99 or receives a designation of a specialized school pursuant to Article 104 (1) by false or other fraudulent means;
5. A person who issues a completion certificate or graduation certificate pursuant to Article 108 (5) without receiving a designation of a specialized school pursuant to Article 104 (1);
6. A person who conducts automobile driving education for compensation in violation of Article 116 (1);
7. Deleted <Jan. 30, 2024>.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]
[Date of Enforcement: Jul. 1, 2026] Article 150

Article 151 (Penalties)
If a driver of a vehicle or a tram destroys a building or other property of another person by neglecting necessary care in business or by gross negligence, he/she shall be punished by imprisonment without labor for not more than 2 years or by a fine not exceeding 5 million won. <Amended on Mar. 27, 2018>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 151-2 (Penalties)
A person falling under any of the following shall be punished by imprisonment with labor for not more than 1 year or by a fine not exceeding 5 million won: <Amended on Jun. 9, 2020>
1. A person who engages in reckless driving of a motor vehicle, etc. in violation of Article 46-3;
2. A person who drives a motor vehicle, etc. three times or more at a speed exceeding the maximum speed under Article 17 (1) and (2) by more than 100 kilometers per hour in violation of Article 17 (3).
[This Article Newly Inserted on Aug. 11, 2015]

Article 152 (Penalties)
A person falling under any of the following shall be punished by imprisonment with labor for not more than 1 year or by a fine not exceeding 3 million won: <Amended on Oct. 19, 2021; Oct. 24, 2023; Dec. 30, 2025>
1. A person who drives an automobile without obtaining a driver's license under Article 80 (excluding motor-driven cycle licenses; the same shall apply hereinafter in this Article) (including cases where the effectiveness of the driver's license is suspended) or without obtaining an international driver's license or a mutually recognized foreign license under Article 96 (including cases where driving is prohibited and the valid period has passed) in violation of Article 43;
1-2. A person who drives a motor vehicle, etc. in which an alcohol-ignition interlock is not installed or an alcohol-ignition interlock that does not meet the installation standards is installed after obtaining a conditional driver's license in violation of Article 50-3 (3);
2. An employer, etc. who has a person who has not obtained a driver's license (including a person whose driver's license effectiveness is suspended) drive an automobile in violation of Article 56 (2);
3. A person who has obtained a driver's license or has been issued a driver's license or a certificate substituting for it by false or other fraudulent means;
4. A person who leaves things that may obstruct traffic on a road at will in violation of Article 68 (2);
5. The head of a traffic safety education institution who has a person who is not a traffic safety education instructor conduct traffic safety education in violation of Article 76 (4);
6. A person who brokers or advertises unregistered paid driving education in violation of Article 116 (2) or (3);
7. A person who uses similar names, etc. in violation of Article 117.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]
[Date of Enforcement: Jul. 1, 2026] Article 152

Article 152-2 Deleted <Jul. 23, 2010>

Article 153 (Penalties)
(1) A person falling under any of the following shall be punished by imprisonment with labor for not more than 6 months or by a fine not exceeding 2 million won or by detention: <Amended on Aug. 11, 2015>
1. A person who has a vehicle with poor maintenance driven or drives it in violation of Article 40;
2. A person who fails to follow the requests, measures, or orders of a police officer pursuant to Article 41, 47, or 58 or who refuses or obstructs them;
3. A person who manufactures, imports, sells, or installs a device that interferes with the functions of traffic enforcement equipment for the purpose of evading traffic enforcement in violation of Article 46-2;
4. A person who drives a vehicle equipped with a device that interferes with the functions of traffic enforcement equipment in violation of Article 49 (1) 4;
5. A person who obstructs the measures or reporting acts in case of a traffic accident in violation of Article 55;
6. A person who installs traffic safety facilities or other similar artificial structures at will in violation of Article 68 (1);
7. A person who drives in violation of the conditions under Article 80 (3) or (4).
(2) A person falling under any of the following shall be punished by a fine not exceeding 1 million won or by detention: <Newly Inserted on Aug. 11, 2015; Jun. 9, 2020>
1. A person who drives in intentional violation of Article 13 (3) on expressways, motorway-only roads, or roads with a median strip;
2. A person who drives a motor vehicle, etc. at a speed exceeding the maximum speed under Article 17 (1) and (2) by more than 100 kilometers per hour in violation of Article 17 (3).
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 154 (Penalties)
A person falling under any of the following shall be punished by a fine not exceeding 300,000 won or by detention: <Amended on Mar. 27, 2018; Dec. 24, 2019; May 26, 2020; Jun. 9, 2020; Oct. 20, 2020; Oct. 19, 2021; Apr. 1, 2025>
1. A person who applies paint, marks, etc. to a motor vehicle, etc. or drives such a motor vehicle, etc. in violation of Article 42;
2. A person who drives a motor-driven cycle without obtaining a driver's license to drive a motor-driven cycle under Article 80 (including cases where the effectiveness of the driver's license is suspended) or without obtaining an international driver's license or a mutually recognized foreign license recording that he/she can drive a motor-driven cycle (including cases where driving is prohibited and the valid period has passed) in violation of Article 43 (Provided, That cases of driving a personal mobility device are excluded);
3. A person who drives a motor vehicle, etc. or a tram in a state where there is a concern that he/she cannot drive normally due to exhaustion or disease in violation of Article 45 (1) (Provided, That cases of driving a personal mobility device are excluded);
3-2. An operator who operates a school bus for children without a guardian on board in violation of Article 53 (3);
3-3. A driver who fails to check whether children or infants have got off in violation of Article 53 (4);
3-4. A driver who fails to operate a child getting-off check device in violation of Article 53 (5): Provided, That cases where the device is temporarily removed for inspection or repair and cannot be operated are excluded;
3-5. A person who attaches a guardian-accompanying mark to a school bus for children operating without a guardian in violation of Article 53 (6);
4. A person who fails to report the situation of measures, etc. in case of an accident pursuant to Article 54 (2);
5. An employer, etc. who has a person who has not obtained a motor-driven cycle license (including a person whose driver's license effectiveness is suspended) or has not been issued an international driver's license or a mutually recognized foreign license recording that he/she can drive a motor-driven cycle (including cases where driving is prohibited and the valid period has passed) drive a motor-driven cycle in violation of Article 56 (2);
6. A person who passes through or crosses expressways, etc. in violation of Article 63;
7. A person who fails to report road construction pursuant to Article 69 (1), or violates the measures pursuant to paragraph (2) of the same Article, or fails to install traffic safety facilities in violation of paragraph (3) of the same Article, or fails to deploy safety personnel or safety induction equipment in violation of paragraph (4) of the same Article, or fails to restore traffic safety facilities to their original state in violation of paragraph (6) of the same Article;
8. A person who violates an order of a Chief of a Police Station pursuant to Article 71 (1);
9. A person who drives a motor vehicle, etc. at a speed exceeding the maximum speed under Article 17 (1) and (2) by more than 80 kilometers per hour in violation of Article 17 (3) (excluding persons falling under Article 151-2 (2) and 153 (2) 2).
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 155 (Penalties)
A person who fails to comply with a police officer's request for presentation of a driver's license, etc. or a request for a statement for confirmation of the driver in violation of Article 92 (2) shall be punished by a fine not exceeding 200,000 won or by detention.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 156 (Penalties)
A person falling under any of the following shall be punished by a fine not exceeding 200,000 won or by detention or a minor fine: <Amended on Aug. 13, 2013; Jan. 28, 2014; Dec. 30, 2014; Aug. 11, 2015; Jan. 27, 2016; Dec. 2, 2016; Oct. 24, 2017; Mar. 27, 2018; Oct. 16, 2018; May 26, 2020; Jun. 9, 2020; Dec. 22, 2020; Jan. 12, 2021; Oct. 19, 2021; Jan. 11, 2022; Mar. 19, 2024; Dec. 3, 2024>
1. A driver of a vehicle or horse or a tram who violates Article 5, 13 (1) through (3) (excluding a person who drives in intentional violation of Article 13 (3) on expressways, motorway-only roads, or roads with a median strip) and paragraph (5), 14 (2), (3), and (5), 15 (3) (including cases where it is applied mutatis mutandis in Article 61 (2)), 15-2 (3), 16 (2), 17 (3) (excluding persons falling under Article 151-2 (2), 153 (2) 2, and 154 (9)), 18, 19 (1), (3), and (4), 21 (1), (3), and (4), 24, 25, 25-2, 26 through 28, 32, 33, 34-3, 37 (excluding paragraph (1) 2), 38 (1), 39 (1), (3), (4), and (5), 48 (1), 49 (excluding a person who drives a vehicle or a tram in violation of paragraph (1) 1 and 3 of the same Article and a person who drives a vehicle equipped with a device that interferes with the functions of traffic enforcement equipment among the acts of violating paragraph (4) of the same paragraph), 50 (5) through (10) (excluding a person who drives a bicycle in violation of paragraph (9) of the same Article), 51, 53 (1) and (2) (excluding a driver who fails to have passengers wear seat belts), 62, or 73 (2) (excluding subparagraph 1 of the same paragraph);
2. A driver of a vehicle or a tram who violates the prohibition, restriction, or measures pursuant to Article 6 (1), (2), or (4) or Article 7;
3. A person who violates Article 22, 23, 29 (4) through (6), 53-5, 60, 64, 65, or 66;
4. A person who violates Article 31, 34, or 52 (4), or who violates an order pursuant to Article 35 (1);
5. A person who violates the restriction of a Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency pursuant to Article 39 (6);
6. A driver who fails to wear a seat belt or personal protective equipment in violation of Article 50 (1), (3), and (4) (excluding bicycle drivers);
6-2. A driver of an autonomous vehicle who fails to respond without delay to a direct driving request from the autonomous driving system in violation of Article 56-2 (1);
7. A person who refuses or obstructs the collection of a driver's license by a police officer pursuant to Article 95 (2);
8. Deleted <May 26, 2020>;
9. Deleted <May 26, 2020>;
9-2. Deleted <May 26, 2020>;
10. A person who fails to provide personal information to the victim pursuant to Article 54 (1) 2 when it is clear that only a stopped or parked vehicle was damaged;
11. A person who drives a bicycle, etc. in a state of intoxication in violation of Article 44 (1);
12. A person who fails to comply with the measurement of a police officer pursuant to Article 44 (2) while there is a reasonable ground to recognize that he/she is in a state of intoxication (limited to persons who drive a bicycle, etc.);
12-2. A person who for whom there is a reasonable ground to recognize that he/she is in a state of intoxication and who engages in an act of interfering with breathalyzer test after driving a bicycle, etc. in violation of Article 44 (5);
13. A person who drives a personal mobility device without obtaining a driver's license to drive a motor-driven cycle under Article 80 (including cases where the effectiveness of the driver's license is suspended) or without being issued an international driver's license or a mutually recognized foreign license recording that he/she can drive a motor-driven cycle (including cases where driving is prohibited and the valid period has passed) in violation of Article 43.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 157 (Penalties)
A person falling under any of the following shall be punished by a fine not exceeding 200,000 won or by detention or a minor fine: <Amended on Apr. 18, 2023>
1. A pedestrian (including an outdoor mobile robot operator in case an outdoor mobile robot violates) who violates Article 5, 8 (1), or 10 (2) through (5);
2. A pedestrian (including an outdoor mobile robot operator in case an outdoor mobile robot violates) who violates the prohibition, restriction, or measures pursuant to Article 6 (1), (2), or (4) or Article 7;
2-2. An outdoor mobile robot operator who violates Article 8-2 (2);
3. A pedestrian or a leader of a procession, etc. who violates Article 9 (1) or violates the measures of a police officer pursuant to paragraph (3) of the same Article;
4. A person who engages in prohibited acts on a road in violation of Article 68 (3).
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 158 (Concurrent Imposition of Punishments)
Imprisonment with labor and a fine or a minor fine and detention may be concurrently imposed on a person who commits a crime under this Chapter according to circumstances.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 158-2 (Reduction or Exemption of Punishment)
In case a driver of an emergency vehicle (limited to vehicles under Article 2 (22) (a) through (c) and police vehicles prescribed by Presidential Decree) causes a traffic accident while operating the vehicle for its original urgent purpose, the punishment according to Article 151 of this Act, Article 3 (1) of the Act on Special Cases concerning the Settlement of Traffic Accidents, or Article 5-13 of the Act on the Aggravated Punishment of Specific Crimes may be reduced or exempted in consideration of circumstances such as the urgency and inevitability of the urgent activity. <Amended on Jan. 12, 2021>
[This Article Newly Inserted on Jan. 27, 2016]

Article 159 (Joint Penal Provisions)
If a representative of a corporation, or an agent, employee, or other worker of a corporation or an individual commits a violation falling under any of Articles 148, 148-2, and 149 through 157 in connection with the business of the corporation or the individual, the corporation or the individual shall also be punished by the fine or minor fine under the respective Article, in addition to punishing the actor: Provided, That this shall not apply where the corporation or the individual has not neglected reasonable care and supervision regarding the relevant business to prevent the violation.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 160 (Negligence Fines)
(1) A negligence fine not exceeding 5 million won shall be imposed on any of the following persons: <Amended on Jan. 28, 2014; May 26, 2020; Oct. 24, 2023>
1. A person who fails to report the suspension or permanent closure of a traffic safety education institution in violation of Article 78;
2. A person who fails to post the personal information of instructors and education subjects in violation of Article 109 (2);
3. A person who fails to post tuition fees, etc. in violation of Article 110 (2), or who receives an amount exceeding the posted tuition fees, etc. in violation of paragraph (3) of the same Article;
4. A person who fails to take measures necessary for the protection of trainees such as refunding tuition fees, etc. in violation of Article 111;
5. A person who fails to report the suspension or closure of a school or specialized school in violation of Article 112;
6. A person who refuses, obstructs, or evades the removal of signboards or other marks, installation of facilities, or attaching of notices pursuant to Article 115 (1), or who removes or makes unusable the notices or installed facilities at will;
7. An operator who operates a school bus for children without reporting it pursuant to Article 52 (1);
8. An operator who operates a school bus for children without meeting the requirements under Article 52 (3);
9. A person who fails to submit operation records of motor vehicles, etc. equipped with an alcohol-ignition interlock or fails to undergo an inspection for normal operation after registering the installation of an alcohol-ignition interlock in violation of Article 50-3 (6).
(2) A negligence fine not exceeding 200,000 won shall be imposed on any of the following persons: <Amended on Jan. 28, 2014; Dec. 30, 2014; Oct. 24, 2017; Mar. 27, 2018; May 26, 2020; Jan. 12, 2021; Mar. 19, 2024>
1. A driver of a vehicle or a tram who violates Article 49 (1) 1 and 3;
2. A driver who fails to have passengers wear seat belts in violation of Article 50 (1);
3. A driver who fails to have passengers wear personal protective equipment in violation of Article 50 (3) and (4) (excluding bicycle drivers);
4. An operator of a school bus for children who fails to keep a report certificate inside the school bus for children in violation of Article 52 (2);
4-2. A driver who fails to have children or infants wear seat belts in violation of Article 53 (2);
4-3. A person who fails to receive school bus safety education in violation of Article 53-3 (1);
4-4. An operator of a school bus for children who has a person who has not received school bus safety education drive the school bus for children or accompany it in violation of Article 53-3 (3);
4-5. An operator of a school bus for children who fails to submit safe operation records in violation of Article 53 (7);
5. A driver who violates the matters to be observed on expressways, etc. pursuant to Article 67 (2);
6. A person who fails to receive education on safe driving, etc. of emergency vehicles in violation of Article 73 (4);
7. A person who fails to renew a driver's license during the renewal period of the driver's license in violation of Article 87 (1);
8. A person who fails to receive a regular aptitude test or an occasional aptitude test in violation of Article 87 (2) or 88 (1);
9. A guardian of a child who lets the child drive a personal mobility device in violation of Article 11 (4);
10. A person who fails to receive autonomous vehicle safety education in violation of Article 56-3 (1).
(3) Where the fact that a vehicle or a tram has violated Article 5, 6 (1) and (2) (referring to cases of violating prohibition or restriction of passage), 13 (1), (3), and (5), 14 (2) and (5), 15 (3) (including cases where it is applied mutatis mutandis in Article 61 (2)), 17 (3), 18, 19 (3), 21 (1) and (3), 22, 23, 25 (1), (2), and (5), 25-2 (1) and (2), 27 (1) and (7), 29 (4) and (5), 32 through 34, 37 (excluding paragraph (1) 2), 38 (1), 39 (1) and (4), 48 (1), 49 (1) 10, 11, and 11-2, 50 (3), 60 (1) and (2), 62, or 68 (3) 5 is proved by photos, videotapes, other image recording media, or load measurement data, and falls under any of the following, a negligence fine not exceeding 200,000 won shall be imposed on the employer, etc. under Article 56 (1): <Amended on May 22, 2013; Dec. 2, 2016; Mar. 27, 2018; Jan. 11, 2022; Jan. 7, 2025>
1. Where a notice pursuant to Article 143 (1) cannot be issued because the driver who committed the violation cannot be identified (limited to cases of violating Article 15 (3), 29 (4) and (5), 32, 33, or 34);
2. Where a notice disposition of a fine pursuant to Article 163 cannot be made.
(4) Notwithstanding paragraph (3), a negligence fine disposition cannot be made in any of the following cases: <Amended on Aug. 11, 2015; Mar. 27, 2018>
1. Where the vehicle or tram was stolen or there are other unavoidable reasons;
2. Where the driver was punished pursuant to Article 156 for the relevant violation (including cases of receiving a notice disposition of a fine pursuant to Article 163);
3. Where the driver who committed the violation was revealed as a result of submission of opinions pursuant to Article 16 (2) of the Act on the Regulation of Violations of Public Order or filing an objection pursuant to Article 20 (1) of the same Act;
4. Where the motor vehicle is a motor vehicle leased by an automobile rental business operator under the Passenger Transport Service Act or a facility leasing business operator under the Specialized Credit Finance Business Act, and it is clear that only the motor vehicle was leased.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 161 (Imposition and Collection of Negligence Fines, etc.)
(1) Negligence fines pursuant to Article 160 (1) through (3) shall be imposed and collected by the following persons as prescribed by Presidential Decree: <Amended on Jan. 28, 2014; Jan. 27, 2016; Mar. 27, 2018; May 26, 2020; Dec. 22, 2020; Mar. 19, 2024>
1. Negligence fines under Article 160 (1) through (3) (excluding cases of violating exclusive lane passage pursuant to Article 15 (3), stopping or parking pursuant to Articles 32 through 34, submission of safe operation records pursuant to Article 53 (7), school bus safety education pursuant to Article 53-3 (1), and duty regulations for school bus operators pursuant to Article 53-3 (3)): Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency;
2. Negligence fines under Article 160 (1) (limited to cases of violating Article 52 (1) and (3)), paragraph (2) (limited to cases of violating Article 49 (1) 1 and 3, 50 (1) and (3), 52 (2), 53 (2), 53-3 (1) and (3), and 56-3 (1)), and paragraph (3) (limited to cases of violating Articles 5, 13 (3), 15 (3), 17 (3), 29 (4) and (5), and 32 through 34): Governor of Jeju Special Self-Governing Province;
3. Negligence fines under Article 160 (2) 4-3, 4-4, 4-5, and 10 and paragraph (3) of the same Article (limited to cases of violating Article 15 (3), 29 (4) and (5), and 32 through 34): Mayors, etc.;
4. Negligence fines under Article 160 (2) 4-3, 4-4, and 4-5: Superintendents of Education.
(2) A Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency may entrust part of the affairs related to the collection of negligence fines under this Act to the Korea Asset Management Corporation established in accordance with the Act on the Establishment of Korea Asset Management Corporation, etc. as prescribed by Presidential Decree. <Newly Inserted on Jan. 27, 2016; Nov. 26, 2019; Dec. 22, 2020>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]
[Title Amended on Jan. 27, 2016]

Article 161-2 (Payment Methods of Negligence Fines, etc.)
(1) Where the payment amount of a negligence fine is less than or equal to the amount prescribed by Presidential Decree, it can be paid by credit card, debit card, etc. (hereinafter referred to as "credit card, etc.") through a negligence fine payment agency prescribed by Presidential Decree. In such cases, "negligence fine payment agency" refers to an institution that performs settlement by credit card, etc. using an information and communication network and is designated as a negligence fine payment agency as prescribed by Presidential Decree.
(2) In case of paying by credit card, etc. pursuant to paragraph (1), the approval date of the negligence fine payment agency shall be deemed the payment date.
(3) A negligence fine payment agency may receive a payment agency fee from the payer as prescribed by Presidential Decree in exchange for the service of negligence fine payment agency by credit card, etc.
(4) Necessary matters for the designation and operation of negligence fine payment agencies and payment agency fees shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 161-3 (Establishment and Implementation of Operation Plan for Negligence Fine/Fine Collection Information System)
The Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency may establish and implement an operation plan for a negligence fine/fine collection information system including the following matters to enable anyone to conveniently search the contents of negligence fines and fines and make electronic payments (referring to payment through the internet, telephone communication devices, or linked methods of automated teller machines):
1. Linkage between the information and communication network of negligence fine/fine payment agencies and the integrated collection processing system;
2. Real-time processing and safe management of negligence fine and fine payments and operation of the integrated collection processing system;
3. Other matters necessary for the establishment and implementation of the operation plan prescribed by Presidential Decree.
[This Article Newly Inserted on Jan. 27, 2016]

CHAPTER XIV SPECIAL CASES FOR HANDLING OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS

Article 162 (General Rules)
(1) In this Chapter, "traffic violation" refers to a violation falling under each subparagraph of Article 156 or each subparagraph of Article 157, and its specific scope shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.
(2) In this Chapter, "violator" refers to a person who has committed a traffic violation and does not fall under any of the following:
1. A driver who cannot present a driver's license, etc. under Article 92 (1) or a certificate substituting for it at the time of the traffic violation, or who does not respond to a police officer's questions for confirmation of the driver's identity and driver's license;
2. A person who has caused a traffic accident by a traffic violation: Provided, That persons who have become not to be punished for the crime of occupational negligence causing death or injury, the crime of gross negligence causing death or injury, or the crime under Article 151 of this Act pursuant to Articles 3 (2) and 4 of the Act on Special Cases concerning the Settlement of Traffic Accidents are excluded.
(3) In this Chapter, "fine" refers to the money that a violator must pay to the national treasury or the treasury of Jeju Special Self-Governing Province according to a notice disposition pursuant to Article 163, and the amount of the fine shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree according to the type of traffic violation and the type of vehicle, etc.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 163 (Notice Disposition)
(1) A Chief of a Police Station or the Governor of Jeju Special Self-Governing Province (in the case of the Governor of Jeju Special Self-Governing Province, violations of Article 6 (1) and (2), Article 15 (3) applied mutatis mutandis in Article 61 (2), Article 39 (6), 60, 62, 64 through 66, 73 (2) 2 through 5, and 95 (1) are excluded) may notify a person recognized as a violator to pay a fine with a notice of payment of a fine clearly stating the reason: Provided, That this shall not apply to a person falling under any of the following: <Amended on Dec. 30, 2014; Oct. 24, 2017; Oct. 20, 2020>
1. A person whose name or address is not certain;
2. A person who is feared to run away;
3. A person who refuses to receive a notice of payment of a fine.
(2) When the Governor of Jeju Special Self-Governing Province has made a notice disposition pursuant to paragraph (1), he/she shall notify the fact to the jurisdiction Chief of a Police Station.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 164 (Payment of Fines)
(1) A person who has received a notice of payment of a fine pursuant to Article 163 shall pay the fine within 10 days to a national treasury bank, a branch, an agency, a post office designated by the Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency, or a financial company, etc. or its branch designated by the Governor of Jeju Special Self-Governing Province: Provided, That in case he/she cannot pay the fine within the period due to natural disasters or other unavoidable reasons, he/she shall pay within 5 days from the date the reason disappears.
(2) A person who fails to pay the fine within the payment period pursuant to paragraph (1) shall pay the amount obtained by adding 20/100 of the notified fine to the fine within 20 days from the day after the payment period ends.
(3) A person who has paid the fine pursuant to paragraph (1) or (2) shall not be punished again for the traffic violation.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 164-2 (Payment Methods of Fines, etc.)
Regarding the method of payment of fines, the provisions of Article 161-2 shall apply mutatis mutandis. In such cases, "negligence fine" shall be construed as "fine."
[This Article Newly Inserted on Jan. 27, 2016]

Article 165 (Handling of Persons Failing to Comply with Notice Disposition, etc.)
(1) A Chief of a Police Station or the Governor of Jeju Special Self-Governing Province shall request a summary trial without delay for a person falling under any of the following: Provided, That this shall not apply to a person falling under subparagraph 2 who has paid the amount obtained by adding 50/100 of the notified fine amount to the fine until the summary trial is requested: <Amended on Dec. 2, 2016>
1. A person falling under any of the subparagraphs of Article 163 (1);
2. A person who has not paid the fine within the payment period pursuant to Article 164 (2).
(2) If a defendant for whom a summary trial has been requested pursuant to paragraph (1) 2 pays the amount obtained by adding 50/100 of the notified fine amount to the fine and submits a document proving the payment before the sentence of the summary trial is pronounced, the Chief of a Police Station or the Governor of Jeju Special Self-Governing Province shall cancel the request for summary trial against the defendant. <Amended on Dec. 2, 2016>
(3) A person who has paid the fine pursuant to the proviso of the part other than each subparagraph of paragraph (1) or pursuant to paragraph (2) shall not be punished again for the traffic violation.
(4) Deleted <Dec. 2, 2016>
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

Article 166 (Prohibition of Abuse of Official Authority)
When making a notice disposition according to the provisions of this Chapter, a police officer enforcing traffic shall not abuse his/her official authority by departing from the original purpose.
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 8, 2011]

ADDENDA <No. 7545, May 31, 2005>
Article 1 (Date of Enforcement)
This Act shall enter into force one year after the date of its promulgation.
Article 2 (Examples of Application regarding Special Traffic Safety Education)
The amended provisions of Article 73 (2) 3 shall apply starting from the person who first receives a disposition of suspension of effectiveness of a driver's license as a novice driver after the enforcement of this Act.
Article 3 (Examples of Application regarding Prohibition of Driving in Intoxicated State, etc.)
The amended provisions of Articles 82 (2) 5 and 93 (1) 2 shall apply starting from violations occurring for the first time after June 30, 2001, which is the enforcement date of Act No. 6392, the Partial Amendment to the Road Traffic Act. In such cases, violations occurring for the first time or occurring after June 30, 2001 shall be deemed the first violation.
Article 4 (Interim Measures regarding Previous Licenses, etc.)
Acts of administrative agencies or acts against administrative agencies according to previous provisions at the time of enforcement of this Act shall be deemed the corresponding acts of administrative agencies or acts against administrative agencies according to this Act.
Article 5 (Interim Measures regarding Road Traffic Safety Management Authority)
The Road Traffic Safety Management Authority established according to previous provisions at the time of enforcement of this Act shall be deemed the Road Traffic Safety Management Authority according to this Act.
Article 6 (Interim Measures regarding Refund of Contributions)
(1) Among the contributions already paid to the Road Traffic Safety Management Authority (hereinafter referred to as "contributions for which the period has not elapsed" in this Article) according to the previous Article 92-2 before the enforcement of Act No. 6565, the Partial Amendment to the Road Traffic Act, refund may be applied for within 5 years from January 1, 2002, which is the enforcement date of Act No. 6565, the Partial Amendment to the Road Traffic Act. In such cases, the right to claim refund for contributions for which the period has not elapsed and for which refund has not been applied for within the application period shall expire by prescription.
(2) The provisions of paragraph (1) shall also apply to the settlement amounts due to revocation of a driver's license or cancellation of motor vehicle registration before the enforcement of Act No. 6565, the Partial Amendment to the Road Traffic Act, and to the settlement amounts due to the lowering of contributions implemented from January 1, 1999.
Article 7 (Interim Measures regarding Penalties or Negligence Fines)
Regarding the application of penalties or negligence fines for acts committed before the enforcement of this Act, previous provisions shall prevail.
Article 8 (Amendment of Other Laws)
(1) Part of the Construction Machinery Management Act shall be amended as follows:
In the proviso of Article 26 (1), "Article 68" shall be changed to "Article 80".
(2) Part of the Act on Special Cases concerning the Settlement of Traffic Accidents shall be amended as follows:
In Article 2 (1), "Article 2 (13)" shall be changed to "Article 2 (16)".
In the main sentence of the part other than each subparagraph of Article 3 (2), "Article 108" shall be changed to "Article 151", and in the proviso of the same paragraph of the same Article, "Article 50 (1)" shall be changed to "Article 54 (1)".
In Article 3 (2) 2, "Article 12 (3)" shall be changed to "Article 13 (3)", and "Article 57" shall be changed to "Article 62".
In Article 3 (2) 3, "Article 15 (1) or (2)" shall be changed to "Article 17 (1) or (2)".
In Article 3 (2) 4, "Article 19 (1), 20 through 20-3, or 56 (2)" shall be changed to "Article 21 (1), 22, 23, or 60 (2)".
In Article 3 (2) 5, "Article 21" shall be changed to "Article 24".
In Article 3 (2) 6, "Article 24 (1)" shall be changed to "Article 27 (1)".
In the first sentence of Article 3 (2) 7, "Article 40 (1)" shall be changed to "Article 43 (1)", and "Article 80" shall be changed to "Article 96".
In Article 3 (2) 8, "Article 41 (1)" shall be changed to "Article 44 (1)", and "Article 42" shall be changed to "Article 45".
In Article 3 (2) 9, "Article 12 (1)" shall be changed to "Article 13 (1)", and "Article 12 (2)" shall be changed to "Article 13 (2)".
In Article 3 (2) 10, "Article 35 (2)" shall be changed to "Article 39 (2)".
(3) Part of the Emergency Medical Service Act shall be amended as follows:
In Article 20 (2), "Article 117 (3)" shall be changed to "Article 162 (3)".
(4) Part of the Special Account Act on Improvement of Automobile Traffic Management shall be amended as follows:
In Article 3 (1), "negligence fines according to the provisions of Article 115-2 (4) 1" shall be changed to "negligence fines imposed and collected by the Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency pursuant to Article 161 (1)".
In Article 3 (2), "Article 117 (3)" shall be changed to "Article 162 (3)".
In Article 4 (1) 8, "Article 83" shall be changed to "Article 120".
(5) Part of the Act on the Promotion of Bicycle Use shall be amended as follows:
In Article 26 (2) 3, "Article 80" shall be changed to "Article 96".
(6) Part of the Parking Lot Act shall be amended as follows:
In Article 2 (3), "Article 2 (14)" shall be changed to "Article 2 (17)".
In Article 2 (4), "Article 2 (17)" shall be changed to "Article 2 (22)".
In Articles 7 (4), 8-2 (1), 9, and 10 (1), "Article 2 (16)" shall be changed to "Article 2 (20)" respectively.
In Article 8-2 (3), "Article 31 (3)" shall be changed to "Article 35 (3)", and "Article 31-2" shall be changed to "Article 36".
In Articles 21-2 (2) 6 and 21-2 (3) 5, "negligence fines according to the provisions of Article 115-2 (4) 2" shall be changed to "negligence fines imposed and collected by Mayors, etc. according to the proviso of Article 161 (1)" respectively.
(7) Part of the Act on the Aggravated Punishment of Specific Crimes shall be amended as follows:
In the part other than each subparagraph of Article 5-3 (1), "Article 50 (1)" shall be changed to "Article 54 (1)".

ADDENDA <No. 7666, Aug. 4, 2005>
(1) (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force on June 1, 2006.
(2) (Example of Application regarding Necessary Measures such as Restriction of Construction Hours) The amended provisions of Article 69 (2) shall apply starting from the road construction first implemented after the enforcement of this Act.

ADDENDA <No. 7936, Apr. 28, 2006>
This Act shall enter into force on June 1, 2006: Provided, That the amended provisions of Article 12-2, Article 83 (4) 2, and Article 110 (4) shall enter into force one year after the date of its promulgation.

ADDENDA <No. 7969, Jul. 19, 2006>
This Act shall enter into force three months after the date of its promulgation.

ADDENDA <No. 8736, Dec. 21, 2007>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation.
Article 2 (Example of Application regarding Permission for Occupancy of Roads, etc.) The amended provisions of Article 70 shall apply starting from the permission for occupancy of roads and prohibition or restriction of passage first performed after the enforcement of this Act.
Article 3 (Interim Measures regarding Change of Name of Authority)
(1) The Road Traffic Safety Management Authority at the time of enforcement of this Act shall be deemed the Korea Road Traffic Authority according to this Act. In such cases, the Korea Road Traffic Authority shall amend its articles of incorporation according to the amended provisions of this Act within three months after the enforcement of this Act and obtain authorization from the Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency.
(2) The Chairman, directors, auditors, and employees of the Road Traffic Safety Management Authority at the time of enforcement of this Act shall be deemed to have been appointed as the Chairman, directors, auditors, and employees of the Korea Road Traffic Authority respectively according to this Act. In such cases, the term of office of the officers shall be the remaining term of office according to previous provisions.
(3) All property, rights, and obligations belonging to the Road Traffic Safety Management Authority at the time of enforcement of this Act shall be inherited by the Korea Road Traffic Authority.
(4) The value of the property to be inherited by the Korea Road Traffic Authority pursuant to paragraph (3) shall be the book value on the day before the date of registration of the establishment of the foundation.
Article 4 (Interim Measures regarding Application of Penalties) Regarding the application of penalties for acts committed before the enforcement of this Act, previous provisions shall prevail notwithstanding the amended provisions of Article 152-2.

ADDENDA <No. 8845, Jan. 17, 2008>
(1) (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force three months after the date of its promulgation.
(2) (Example of Application regarding Traffic Safety Education) The amended provisions of Article 73 (1) and Article 83 (4) 1 shall apply starting from those taking the examinations under Article 83 (1) 2 and 3 after the enforcement of this Act.

ADDENDA <No. 8852, Feb. 29, 2008> (Government Organization Act)
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation: Provided, That... <omitted> ..., among the laws amended pursuant to Article 6 of the Addenda, the parts amending laws that were promulgated before the enforcement of this Act but whose enforcement dates have not yet arrived shall enter into force from the respective enforcement dates of the relevant laws.
Articles 2 through 5 Omitted.
Article 6 (Amendment of Other Laws) (1) through (709) Omitted.
<710> Part of the Road Traffic Act shall be amended as follows:
In Article 2 (16) (a) 5) proviso, Article 6 (3), Article 11 (2) and (3), Article 14 (1) first sentence and (3), Article 16 (2) part other than each subparagraph main sentence, Article 45, Article 49 (1) 4, Article 50 (1) proviso, (3), and (4) part other than each subparagraph, Article 52 (3), Article 60 (1) main sentence and (2), Article 66, Article 69 (4), Article 78, Article 80 (2) part other than each subparagraph latter part and (3), Article 85 (2), Article 91 (1) part other than each subparagraph main sentence and proviso, Article 93 (1) part other than each subparagraph main sentence and subparagraph 11 of the same paragraph, paragraph (2) of the same Article, and paragraph (4) of the same Article main sentence and proviso, Article 94 (1) and (2), Article 98 (5), Article 106 (1) and (2), Article 107 (1), (2), and (4) part other than each subparagraph main sentence, Article 108 (2) part other than each subparagraph, paragraph (4), and paragraph (5), Article 109 (2), Article 110 (2), Article 113 (1) part other than each subparagraph main sentence, paragraph (2) part other than each subparagraph, paragraph (3) part other than each subparagraph, and paragraph (4), Article 137 (2) and (3), Article 139, and Article 146 (2), "Ordinance of the Ministry of Government Administration and Home Affairs" shall be changed to "Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety" respectively.
In Article 12 (1) 2, "Ordinance of the Ministry of Government Administration and Home Affairs" shall be changed to "Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety", and in paragraph (2) of the same Article, "Ministry of Education and Human Resources Development, Ministry of Government Administration and Home Affairs, and Ministry of Construction and Transportation" shall be changed to "Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Ministry of the Interior and Safety, and Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs".
In Article 12-2 (1), "Ordinance of the Ministry of Government Administration and Home Affairs" shall be changed to "Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety", and in paragraph (2) of the same Article, "Ministry of Health and Welfare, Ministry of Government Administration and Home Affairs, and Ministry of Construction and Transportation" shall be changed to "Ministry for Health, Welfare and Family Affairs, Ministry of the Interior and Safety, and Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs".
(711) through (760) Omitted.
Article 7 Omitted.

ADDENDA <No. 8976, Mar. 21, 2008> (Road Act)
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation. <Proviso omitted>
Articles 2 through 8 Omitted.
Article 9 (Amendment of Other Laws) (1) through (7) Omitted.
(8) Part of the Road Traffic Act shall be amended as follows:
In the main sentence of Article 70 (1) 1, "Article 40 of the Road Act" shall be changed to "Article 38 of the Road Act", and in subparagraph 2 of the same paragraph, "Article 53 or 54 of the Road Act" shall be changed to "Article 58 or 59 of the Road Act".
In Article 71 (1) 3, "Article 40 of the Road Act" shall be changed to "Article 38 of the Road Act".
(9) through (99) Omitted.
Article 10 Omitted.

ADDENDA <No. 9115, Jun. 13, 2008>
This Act shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation.

ADDENDA <No. 9580, Apr. 1, 2009>
(1) (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation: Provided, That the amended provisions of Article 160 (4) 4 shall enter into force three months after the date of its promulgation.
(2) (Interim Measures regarding Penalties) Regarding the application of penalties for acts committed before the enforcement of this Act, previous provisions shall prevail.
(3) (Interim Measures regarding Imposition of Negligence Fines) Regarding negligence fines imposed or to be imposed according to previous provisions at the time of enforcement of this Act, previous provisions shall prevail.

ADDENDA <No. 9845, Dec. 29, 2009>
(1) (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation.
(2) (Interim Measures regarding Penalties) Regarding the application of penalties for acts committed before the enforcement of this Act, previous provisions shall prevail.

ADDENDA <No. 9932, Jan. 18, 2010> (Government Organization Act)
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force two months after the date of its promulgation. <Proviso omitted>
Articles 2 and 3 Omitted.
Article 4 (Amendment of Other Laws) (1) through (7) Omitted.
(8) Part of the Road Traffic Act shall be amended as follows:
In Article 12-2 (2), "Ministry for Health, Welfare and Family Affairs" shall be changed to "Ministry of Health and Welfare".
(9) through (137) Omitted.
Article 5 Omitted.

ADDENDA <No. 10382, Jul. 23, 2010>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force on January 1, 2011: Provided, That the amended provisions of Articles 3, 4-2, 8, 44, 73 (1), 126, 127, 128, 132, 133, 134, 135, 138-2, 144, 148-2, 157, 159, and 161 (2) through (4) shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation, the amended provisions of Articles 2 (excluding subparagraph 24), 35, 80, 82, and 83 (4) shall enter into force three months after the date of its promulgation, and the amended provisions of Articles 2 (24), 12, 12-2, 37, 46, 46-2, 49, 54, 73 (2), 79, 92, 93, 95, 113, 129-3, 150, 152-2, 153, 155, 156, 160 (2), 161 (1), 161-2, 162, and 163 shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation.
Article 2 (Example of Application regarding Disqualification Period for Obtaining Driver's License)
(1) The amended provisions of Article 82 (2) 1 shall also apply to persons who are in the disqualification period for obtaining a driver's license by violating Article 43 or 96 (3) before the enforcement of this Act, or for whom revocation procedures are in progress due to driving during the period of suspension of effectiveness of a driver's license.
(2) The amended provisions of Article 82 (2) 1-2 shall apply starting from violations occurring for the first time after the enforcement of this Act. In such cases, violations occurring for the first time after the enforcement of this Act shall be deemed the first violation.
Article 3 (Example of Application regarding Implementation of Driver's License Examination) The amended provisions of Article 83 (4) shall also apply to persons who took the driver's license examination before the enforcement of this Act.
Article 4 (Inheritance of Rights and Obligations according to Change of Driver's License Examination Institution) Acts performed by the responsible operation agency managing driver's licenses or its affiliated driver's license examination institution (hereinafter referred to as "Driver's License Examination Management Group") and acts performed against it according to previous provisions at the time of enforcement of this Act shall be deemed acts performed by the Authority or acts performed against it.
Article 5 (Dispatch of Public Officials)
(1) The Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency may, at the request of the Authority, have some of the persons who maintain the status of public officials at the time of enforcement of this Act work on dispatch to the Authority within the scope of less than one year after the enforcement of this Act: Provided, That in case there are special circumstances for the smooth performance of driver's license examinations of the Authority, the dispatch period may be extended through consultation with the Minister of the Interior and Safety at the request of the Authority.
(2) Command and supervision of the service of public officials dispatched to the Authority pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be performed by the Chairman of the Authority, and personnel management such as performance evaluation, promotion, transfer appointment, and discipline shall be performed by the Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency.
(3) When the Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency requests for the personnel management of public officials dispatched pursuant to paragraph (1), the Chairman of the Authority shall report matters related to the service of the dispatched public officials to the Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency.
Article 6 (Special Case for Appointment of Employees of Korea Road Traffic Authority, etc.)
(1) The Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency shall classify and determine those who will be converted to employees of the Authority among the public officials belonging to the Driver's License Examination Management Group at the time of enforcement of this Act simultaneously with the enforcement of this Act, those who wish to continue to maintain the status of public officials after the end of the dispatch period pursuant to Article 5 (1) of the Addenda, and those who will be converted to employees of the Authority after the end of the dispatch period, and shall take measures so that the Authority can appoint employees for those who will be converted to employees of the Authority.
(2) A person converted to an employee of the Authority pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be appointed as an employee of the Authority.
(3) When appointed as an employee of the Authority pursuant to paragraph (2), it shall be deemed that the person retired from the status of a public official.
(4) The retirement age of a person appointed as an employee of the Authority who was a public official pursuant to paragraph (2) shall follow the retirement age according to the State Public Officials Act applied to the person's rank at the time of retirement from the public official status: Provided, That this shall not apply when the retirement age of an employee of the Authority is longer than the retirement age according to the State Public Officials Act.
Article 7 (Special Case for Application of Public Officials Pension Act to Persons Retired from National Police Agency and Appointed as Employees of Authority)
(1) Where a person who served as a public official belonging to the Driver's License Examination Management Group (including those on leave) before the enforcement of this Act retires from the status of public official and is appointed as an employee of the Authority pursuant to Article 6 (2) of the Addenda, a person whose service period according to the Public Officials Pension Act (hereinafter referred to as "Pension Act" in this Article) is less than the minimum service period prescribed in Article 46 (1) of the Pension Act shall be deemed a public official according to Article 3 (1) 1 of the Pension Act until the service period as a public official pursuant to paragraph (2), if he/she applies for the application of the Pension Act to the Government Employees Pension Service established pursuant to Article 4 of the Pension Act (hereinafter referred to as "Pension Service" in this Article) within two months from the date of appointment as an employee of the Authority, but only retirement benefits, survivor benefits (excluding survivor's compensation), and retirement allowance among long-term benefits according to Article 42 of the Pension Act shall be paid. <Amended on Jan. 27, 2016>
(2) An employee of the Authority who is deemed a public official according to Article 3 (1) 1 of the Pension Act by applying for the application of the Pension Act pursuant to paragraph (1) (hereinafter referred to as "employee subject to Pension Act" in this Article) shall be deemed to have retired from the status of public official on the last day of the month in which the service period according to the Pension Act reaches 20 years: Provided, That in any of the following cases before the service period reaches 20 years, it shall be deemed that the person served as a public official until the day prescribed in each subparagraph: <Amended on Jan. 27, 2016>
1. Where an employee subject to Pension Act who has served for 10 years or more applies for exclusion from application to the Pension Service, the day before the application date;
2. Where the person retires from the Authority, the day before the retirement date;
3. Where the person dies while serving at the Authority, the date of death.
(3) The standard monthly income of an employee subject to Pension Act according to Article 3 (1) 5 of the Pension Act shall be the amount equivalent to the standard monthly income calculated according to the rank and pay grade fixed by assuming that the person continued to be promoted from the rank and pay grade of the public official on the day before the appointment as an employee of the Authority: Provided, That the standard monthly income of an employee subject to Pension Act who was a public official receiving an annual salary shall be determined separately by the Minister of the Interior and Safety.
(4) Regarding the employee subject to Pension Act, the Chairman of the Authority shall be deemed the head of an institution according to Article 3 (1) 7 of the Pension Act, and the person liable for withholding according to the Income Tax Act as an employee of the Authority shall be deemed the person liable for collection of contributions according to Article 3 (1) 8 of the Pension Act.
(5) For an employee subject to Pension Act whose service period is 10 years or more pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2), the retirement pension shall be paid from that time if the person falls under Article 46 (1) of the Pension Act: Provided, That in case of falling under Article 7 of the Addenda of Act No. 13387, the Partial Amendment to the Public Officials Pension Act, the retirement pension shall be paid from that time. <Amended on Jan. 27, 2016>
(6) Deleted <Jan. 27, 2016>
(7) In applying Article 64 of the Pension Act to the employee subject to Pension Act, "reasons during service" according to Article 64 (1) 1 and the first sentence of Article 64 (2) shall be "reasons during service (including reasons during the period deemed as a public official)", "in case of being dismissed by impeachment or discipline" according to Article 64 (1) 2 shall be "in case of being dismissed by discipline at the Authority due to reasons during the period deemed as a public official", and "in case of being dismissed by discipline for receiving money or entertainment, embezzlement or misappropriation of public funds" according to Article 64 (1) 3 shall be "in case of being dismissed by discipline at the Authority for receiving money or entertainment, embezzlement or misappropriation of public funds due to reasons during the period deemed as a public official".
(8) The expenses required for the payment of retirement allowance for the employee subject to Pension Act shall be borne and managed by the Authority notwithstanding Article 65 (3) of the Pension Act: Provided, That the amount equivalent to the retirement allowance to be paid when the employee subject to Pension Act retired from the status of public official belonging to the Driver's License Examination Management Group pursuant to Article 6 (3) of the Addenda shall be transferred from the Pension Service to the Authority after deducting the unpaid principal and interest according to Article 31-2 (5) and (6) of the Pension Act when the employee subject to Pension Act is appointed as an employee of the Authority.
(9) Pension contributions and compensation for the employee subject to Pension Act according to Article 69 (1) of the Pension Act shall be borne by the Authority.
(10) The employee subject to Pension Act shall be excluded from the targets of enrollment in the National Pension according to Article 6 of the National Pension Act until the period deemed as a public official pursuant to paragraph (1).
(11) The period deemed as a public official for the employee subject to Pension Act pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be excluded from the number of continuous service years for the calculation of severance pay according to Article 34 of the Labor Standards Act.
(12) Regarding the calculation and payment of retirement benefits, survivor benefits (excluding survivor's compensation), and retirement allowance for the employee subject to Pension Act, and the collection of the expenses, etc., the Pension Act shall apply unless otherwise specifically provided for in this Article.
Article 8 (Interim Measures regarding Special Account for Responsible Operation Agency) National property and goods belonging to the Special Account for Responsible Operation Agency (Driver's License Account) pursuant to Article 29-2 of the Act on the Establishment and Operation of Responsible Operation Agencies and occupied, used, or managed by the Driver's License Examination Management Group at the time of enforcement of this Act shall be returned to the General Account.
Article 9 (Interim Measures regarding Penalties) Regarding the application of penalties for acts committed before the enforcement of this Act, previous provisions shall prevail.

ADDENDA <No. 10790, Jun. 8, 2011>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation.
Article 2 (Example of Application regarding Disqualification for Driver's License) The amended provisions of Article 82 (2) 1, 6, and 7 regarding the act of violating Article 46 shall apply starting from the violation first occurring after the enforcement of this Act.
Article 3 (Interim Measures regarding Exemption from Driver's License Examination) For a person whose driver's license was revoked because he/she did not renew the driver's license before the enforcement of this Act, part of the driver's license examination shall be exempted according to previous provisions notwithstanding the amended provisions of Article 84 (1) 5.
Article 4 (Interim Measures regarding Renewal of Driver's License and Regular Aptitude Test Period) For a person who obtained a driver's license before the enforcement of this Act, the period of the first renewal of the driver's license or regular aptitude test to be received after the enforcement of this Act shall follow previous provisions notwithstanding the amended provisions of Article 87 (1) and (2).
Article 5 (Interim Measures regarding Penalties or Negligence Fines) Regarding the application of penalties or negligence fines for acts committed before the enforcement of this Act, previous provisions shall prevail.
Article 6 (Amendment of Other Laws)
(1) Part of the Act on Special Cases concerning the Settlement of Traffic Accidents shall be amended as follows:
In Article 2 (1), "Article 2 (16) (a) of the Road Traffic Act" shall be changed to "Article 2 (17) (a) of the Road Traffic Act".
(2) Part of the Parking Lot Act shall be amended as follows:
In Article 2 (5), "Article 2 (17) of the Road Traffic Act" shall be changed to "Article 2 (18) of the Road Traffic Act", and in subparagraph 6 of the same Article, "Article 2 (22) of the Road Traffic Act" shall be changed to "Article 2 (24) of the Road Traffic Act".
In the latter part of Article 7 (4), the proviso of the part other than each subparagraph of Article 8-2 (1), the proviso of Article 9 (1), and the proviso of the part other than each subparagraph of Article 10 (1), "Article 2 (20) of the Road Traffic Act" shall be changed to "Article 2 (22) of the Road Traffic Act" respectively.

ADDENDA <No. 11298, Feb. 10, 2012> (Refugee Act)
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force on July 1, 2013.
Article 2 Omitted.
Article 3 (Amendment of Other Laws) (1) Part of the Road Traffic Act shall be amended as follows:
Article 84 (1) 3 (c) shall be as follows:
(c) A person recognized as a refugee under the Refugee Act
(2) through (4) Omitted.

ADDENDA <No. 11402, Mar. 21, 2012>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation.
Article 2 (Interim Measures) The Association of Exemplary Drivers, an incorporated association established according to Article 32 of the Civil Act at the time of enforcement of this Act, shall be deemed the Association of Exemplary Drivers established according to this Act.

ADDENDA <No. 11690, Mar. 23, 2013> (Government Organization Act)
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) (1) This Act shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation.
(2) Omitted.
Articles 2 through 5 Omitted.
Article 6 (Amendment of Other Laws) (1) through (221) Omitted.
<222> Part of the Road Traffic Act shall be amended as follows:
In Article 2 (10), Article 2 (17) (a) 5) proviso, Article 4, Article 6 (3), Article 10 (1), Article 11 (2) and (3), Article 12 (1) 2 and 3, Article 12-2 (1) 1 and 4, Article 13-2 (4) 1, Article 14 (1) first sentence, paragraph (3) main sentence and proviso of the same Article, Article 15-2 (1), Article 17 (1), Article 45, Article 49 (1) 4, Article 50 (1) proviso, (3), and (4), paragraph (5) part other than each subparagraph of the same Article, paragraph (7) of the same Article, Article 52 (3) first sentence, Article 60 (1) main sentence, (2), Article 66, Article 67 (1) main sentence and proviso, (2), Article 69 (4), Article 74 (3), Article 78, Article 79 (1) part other than each subparagraph main sentence, (2), Article 80 (2) part other than each subparagraph latter part, (3), Article 85 (2), Article 86, Article 91 (1) part other than each subparagraph main sentence and proviso, Article 93 (1) part other than each subparagraph main sentence, subparagraph 11 of the same paragraph, paragraph (2), paragraph (4) main sentence and proviso of the same Article, Article 94 (1) and (2), Article 97 (1) part other than each subparagraph, Article 98 (5), Article 106 (1) and (2), paragraph (4) part other than each subparagraph main sentence of the same Article, Article 107 (1) and (2), paragraph (4) part other than each subparagraph main sentence of the same Article, Article 108 (2) part other than each subparagraph, paragraph (4) and (5) of the same Article, Article 109 (2), Article 110 (2), Article 112, Article 113 (1) part other than each subparagraph main sentence, paragraph (2) part other than each subparagraph, paragraph (3) part other than each subparagraph, paragraph (4) of the same Article, Article 137 (3) and (4), Article 139 (1) part other than each subparagraph main sentence, Article 143 (1) first sentence, and Article 146 (2), "Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety" shall be changed to "Ordinance of the Ministry of Security and Public Administration" respectively.
In Article 12 (2), "Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Ministry of the Interior and Safety, and Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs" shall be changed to "Ministry of Education, Ministry of Security and Public Administration, and Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport".
In Article 12-2 (2), "Ministry of the Interior and Safety and Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs" shall be changed to "Ministry of Security and Public Administration and Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport".
(223) through (710) Omitted.
Article 7 Omitted.

ADDENDA <No. 11780, May 22, 2013>
This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation.

ADDENDA <No. 12045, Aug. 13, 2013>
This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation.

ADDENDA <No. 12248, Jan. 14, 2014> (Road Act)
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation.
Articles 2 through 23 Omitted.
Article 24 (Amendment of Other Laws) (1) through (7) Omitted.
(8) Part of the Road Traffic Act shall be amended as follows:
In Article 70 (1) 1, "Article 38 of the Road Act" shall be changed to "Article 61 of the Road Act", and in subparagraph 2 of the same paragraph, "Article 58 of the Road Act" shall be changed to "Article 76 of the Road Act" and "Article 59 of the same Act" shall be changed to "Article 77 of the same Act".
In Article 71 (1) 3, "Article 38 of the Road Act" shall be changed to "Article 61 of the Road Act".
(9) through (126) Omitted.
Article 25 Omitted.

ADDENDA <No. 12343, Jan. 28, 2014>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force one year after the date of its promulgation: Provided, That the amended provisions of Article 12 (1) 4 shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation, and the amended provisions of Article 13 (6) shall enter into force three months after the date of its promulgation.
Article 2 (Applicable Period regarding Duties of Drivers of Child School Buses without Guardians on Board) The amended provisions of Article 53-2 shall apply for two years from the enforcement date of this Act.
Article 3 (Example of Application regarding Duties of Drivers and Operators, etc. of Child School Buses) The amended provisions of Article 53 (3) shall apply to child school buses with a seating capacity of 15 or less operated by schools under the Act on the Establishment and Operation of Private Teaching Institutes and Extracurricular Lessons and sports facilities under the Act on the Installation and Utilization of Sports Facilities starting from the day two years have passed from the enforcement date of this Act.
Article 4 (Example of Application regarding Provision of Information on Violations by Child School Buses, etc.) The provision of information on violations by child school buses according to the amended provisions of Article 53-4 shall apply starting from violations first occurring after the enforcement of this Act.
Article 5 (Interim Measures regarding Previously Reported Child School Buses) Child school buses reported according to previous provisions at the time of enforcement of this Act shall be deemed child school buses reported according to the amended provisions of Article 52.
Article 6 (Interim Measures regarding Unreported Automobiles Used for Child Commuting, etc.) A person who operates an automobile used for child commuting, etc. at the time of enforcement of this Act and has not reported it as a child school bus shall report according to the amended provisions of Article 52 within six months after the enforcement of this Act.
Article 7 (Interim Measures regarding Education on Safe Operation of Child School Buses, etc.)
(1) A person who has received new safety education according to previous provisions before the enforcement of this Act shall be deemed to have received new safety education according to the amended provisions of Article 53-3 (2).
(2) A person who operates or drives a child school bus at the time of enforcement of this Act and has not received the safety education to be received when starting the operation or driving duties shall receive new safety education within three months after the enforcement of this Act notwithstanding the amended provisions of Article 53-3 (2).
(3) A person who has received regular safety education (former safety re-education) according to previous provisions within the past two years from the enforcement date of this Act shall be deemed to have received regular safety education according to the amended provisions of Article 53-3 (2).
(4) A person who operates or drives a child school bus at the time of enforcement of this Act and has not received the regular safety education (former safety re-education) to be received within the past two years from the enforcement date of this Act shall receive regular safety education within six months after the enforcement of this Act notwithstanding the amended provisions of Article 53-3 (2).

ADDENDA <No. 12345, Jan. 28, 2014> (Act on Promotion of Bicycle Use)
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force three months after the date of its promulgation. <Proviso omitted>
Article 2 (Amendment of Other Laws) (1) Part of the Road Traffic Act shall be amended as follows:
In Article 2 (8) and (20), "Act on the Promotion of Bicycle Use" shall be changed to "Act on Promotion of Bicycle Use" respectively.
(2) through (5) Omitted.

ADDENDA <No. 12844, Nov. 19, 2014> (Government Organization Act)
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation: Provided, That among the laws amended pursuant to Article 6 of the Addenda, the parts amending laws that were promulgated before the enforcement of this Act but whose enforcement dates have not yet arrived shall enter into force from the respective enforcement dates of the relevant laws.
Articles 2 through 5 Omitted.
Article 6 (Amendment of Other Laws) (1) through (131) Omitted.
<132> Part of the Road Traffic Act shall be amended as follows:
In Article 2 (10), Article 2 (17) (a) 5) proviso, Article 4, Article 6 (3), Article 10 (1), Article 11 (2) and (3), Article 12 (1) 2 and 3, Article 12-2 (1) 1 and 4, Article 13-2 (4) 1, Article 14 (1) first sentence, paragraph (3) main sentence and proviso of the same Article, Article 15-2 (1), Article 17 (1), Article 45, Article 49 (1) 4, Article 50 (1) proviso, (3), and (4), paragraph (5) part other than each subparagraph main sentence of the same Article, paragraph (7) of the same Article, Article 52 (1), Article 52 (3) first sentence, Article 53 (2) proviso, Article 53-4 (2), Article 60 (1) main sentence, (2), Article 66, Article 67 (1) main sentence and proviso, (2), Article 69 (4), Article 74 (3), Article 78, Article 79 (1) part other than each subparagraph main sentence, (2), Article 80 (2) part other than each subparagraph latter part, (3), Article 85 (2), Article 86, Article 91 (1) part other than each subparagraph main sentence and proviso, Article 93 (1) part other than each subparagraph main sentence, subparagraph 11 of the same paragraph, paragraph (2), paragraph (4) main sentence and proviso of the same Article, Article 94 (1) and (2), Article 97 (1) part other than each subparagraph, Article 98 (5), Article 106 (1) and (2), paragraph (4) part other than each subparagraph main sentence of the same Article, Article 107 (1) and (2), paragraph (4) part other than each subparagraph main sentence of the same Article, Article 108 (2) part other than each subparagraph, paragraph (4) and (5) of the same Article, Article 109 (2), Article 110 (2), Article 112, Article 113 (1) part other than each subparagraph main sentence, paragraph (2) part other than each subparagraph, paragraph (3) part other than each subparagraph, paragraph (4) of the same Article, Article 137 (3) and (4), Article 139 (1) part other than each subparagraph main sentence, Article 143 (1) first sentence, and Article 146 (2), "Ordinance of the Ministry of Security and Public Administration" shall be changed to "Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety" respectively.
In Article 12 (2), "Joint Ordinance of the Ministry of Education, Ministry of Security and Public Administration, and Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport" shall be changed to "Joint Ordinance of the Ministry of Education, Ministry of the Interior and Safety, and Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport in consultation with the Minister of Public Safety and Security".
In Article 12-2 (2), "Joint Ordinance of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, Ministry of Security and Public Administration, and Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport" shall be changed to "Joint Ordinance of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, Ministry of the Interior and Safety, and Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport in consultation with the Minister of Public Safety and Security".
In the amended provisions of Article 52 (1), Article 53 (2) proviso, and Article 53-4 (2) of Act No. 12343, the Partial Amendment to the Road Traffic Act, "Ordinance of the Ministry of Security and Public Administration" shall be changed to "Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety" respectively.
(133) through (258) Omitted.
Article 7 Omitted.

ADDENDA <No. 12917, Dec. 30, 2014>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation: Provided, That the amended provisions of Articles 53 (2) and (3), 53-2, and 160 (2) of Act No. 12343, the Partial Amendment to the Road Traffic Act, shall enter into force on January 29, 2015, and the amended provisions of Articles 14 (4) and (5), 39 (2) through (6), 44 (2), 73 (1) 6 and 7, 85 (5), 144 (1) 3 and 4, and (2) 5 and 6 of the same Article, 156 (1) and (5), and 163 (1) shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation.
Article 2 (Example of Application regarding Special Traffic Safety Education) The amended provisions of Article 73 (2) 1 shall also apply to persons whose driver's license was revoked due to reasons in the amended provisions of Article 93 (1) 9 or 20 before the enforcement of this Act.

ADDENDA <No. 13425, Jul. 24, 2015> (Act on the Establishment and Operation of Conscripted Police Corps)
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation.
Articles 2 through 4 Omitted.
Article 5 (Amendment of Other Laws) (1) and (2) Omitted.
(3) Part of the Road Traffic Act shall be amended as follows:
In Article 5 (1) 1, "Combatant Police Officer" shall be changed to "Conscripted Police Officer".
(4) through (9) Omitted.
Article 6 Omitted.

ADDENDA <No. 13426, Jul. 24, 2015> (Special Act on the Establishment of Jeju Special Self-Governing Province and the Development of Free International City)
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation. <Proviso omitted>
Articles 2 through 37 Omitted.
Article 38 (Amendment of Other Laws) (1) through (7) Omitted.
(8) Part of the Road Traffic Act shall be amended as follows:
In Article 12 (1) 4, "Article 189-4 of the Special Act on the Establishment of Jeju Special Self-Governing Province and the Development of Free International City" shall be changed to "Article 223 of the Special Act on the Establishment of Jeju Special Self-Governing Province and the Development of Free International City".
(9) through (12) Omitted.
Article 39 Omitted.

ADDENDA <No. 13458, Aug. 11, 2015>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation: Provided, That the amended provisions of Articles 46-3, 73 (2), 93 (1), 151-2, 153, and 156 shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation.
Article 2 (Example of Application regarding Disqualification Period for Obtaining Driver's License) The disqualification period for a driver's license according to the amended provisions of the proviso of Article 82 (2) and subparagraphs 5 through 7 of the same paragraph shall apply starting from violations occurring for the first time after the enforcement of this Act: Provided, That the amended provisions of the proviso of Article 82 (2) and subparagraph 7 of the same paragraph shall also apply to persons for whom driver's license administrative disposition procedures are in progress or who are in the disqualification period for obtaining a driver's license after the enforcement of this Act due to violations committed before the enforcement of this Act.
Article 3 (Interim Measures regarding Adult Wards, etc.) Adult wards according to the amended provisions of Article 102 (1) 1 and Article 105 (2) (a) shall be deemed to include those for whom the effect of declaration of incompetence or quasi-incompetence is maintained according to Article 2 of the Addenda of Act No. 10429, the Partial Amendment to the Civil Act.

ADDENDA <No. 13829, Jan. 27, 2016>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation: Provided, That the amended provisions of Article 5-3, Article 93 (1) part other than each subparagraph main sentence, Article 158-2, and Article 7 of the Addenda of Act No. 10382, the Partial Amendment to the Road Traffic Act, shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation, and the amended provisions of Article 161 (2) shall enter into force on January 1, 2017.
Article 2 (Example of Application regarding Special License) The amended provisions of Article 80 (2) shall apply starting from the driver's license examination first conducted after the enforcement of this Act.
Article 3 (Example of Application regarding Revocation/Suspension of Driver's License) The amended provisions of Article 93 (1) 10-2 shall apply starting from violations first occurring after the enforcement of this Act.
Article 4 (Example of Application regarding Adjustment of Special Case for Application of Public Officials Pension Act to Persons Retired from National Police Agency and Appointed as Employees of Authority) The amended provisions of Article 7 of the Addenda of Act No. 10382, the Partial Amendment to the Road Traffic Act, shall apply from January 1, 2016.
Article 5 (Interim Measures regarding Special License) A person holding a trailer license at the time of enforcement of this Act shall be deemed to hold a large-sized towing vehicle license, and a person holding a wrecker license shall be deemed to hold a wrecker license.
Article 6 (Amendment of Other Laws) Part of the Act on Special Cases concerning the Settlement of Traffic Accidents shall be amended as follows:
In Article 3 (2) 10, "Article 39 (2)" shall be changed to "Article 39 (3)".

ADDENDA <No. 14266, May 29, 2016>
This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation.

ADDENDA <No. 14356, Dec. 2, 2016>
This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation: Provided, That the amended provisions of Article 165 shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation.

ADDENDA <No. 14617, Mar. 21, 2017> (Act on Promotion of Bicycle Use)
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force one year after the date of its promulgation.
Article 2 (Amendment of Other Laws) Part of the Road Traffic Act shall be amended as follows:
In Article 2 (19) (b), "vehicle" shall be changed to "vehicle (excluding electric bicycles according to Article 2 (1-2) of the Act on Promotion of Bicycle Use)".
In Article 2 (20), "bicycles according to Article 2 (1) of the Act on Promotion of Bicycle Use" shall be changed to "bicycles and electric bicycles according to Article 2 (1) and (1-2) of the Act on Promotion of Bicycle Use".

ADDENDA <No. 14839, Jul. 26, 2017> (Government Organization Act)
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) (1) This Act shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation: Provided, That among the laws amended pursuant to Article 5 of the Addenda, the parts amending laws that were promulgated before the enforcement of this Act but whose enforcement dates have not yet arrived shall enter into force from the respective enforcement dates of the relevant laws.
Articles 2 through 4 Omitted.
Article 5 (Amendment of Other Laws) (1) through (118) Omitted.
<119> Part of the Road Traffic Act shall be amended as follows:
In Article 2 (10), Article 2 (17) (a) 5) proviso, Article 4, Article 6 (3), Article 10 (1), Article 11 (2) and (3), Article 12 (1) 2 and 3, Article 12-2 (1) 1 and 4, Article 13-2 (4) 1, Article 14 (1) first sentence, paragraph (3) main sentence and proviso of the same Article, Article 15-2 (1), Article 17 (1), Article 45, Article 49 (1) 4, Article 50 (1) proviso, (3), and (4), paragraph (5) part other than each subparagraph main sentence of the same Article, paragraph (7) of the same Article, Article 52 (1), Article 52 (3) first sentence, Article 53 (2) proviso, Article 53-4 (2), Article 60 (1) main sentence, (2), Article 66, Article 67 (1) main sentence and proviso, (2), Article 69 (4), Article 74 (3), Article 78, Article 79 (1) part other than each subparagraph main sentence, (2), Article 80 (2) part other than each subparagraph latter part, (3), Article 85 (2), Article 86, Article 87-2 (1), Article 91 (1) part other than each subparagraph main sentence and proviso, Article 93 (1) part other than each subparagraph main sentence, subparagraph 11 of the same paragraph, paragraph (2), paragraph (4) main sentence and proviso of the same Article, Article 94 (1) and (2), Article 97 (1) part other than each subparagraph, Article 98 (5), Article 106 (1) and (2), paragraph (4) part other than each subparagraph main sentence of the same Article, Article 107 (1) and (2), paragraph (4) part other than each subparagraph main sentence of the same Article, Article 108 (2) part other than each subparagraph, paragraph (4) and (5) of the same Article, Article 109 (2), Article 110 (2), Article 112, Article 113 (1) part other than each subparagraph main sentence, paragraph (2) part other than each subparagraph, paragraph (3) part other than each subparagraph, paragraph (4) of the same Article, Article 137 (3) and (4), Article 139 (1) part other than each subparagraph main sentence, Article 143 (1) first sentence, and Article 146 (2), "Ordinance of the Ministry of Security and Public Administration" shall be changed to "Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety" respectively.
In Article 12 (2), "Joint Ordinance of the Ministry of Education, Ministry of the Interior and Safety, and Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport in consultation with the Minister of Public Safety and Security" shall be changed to "Joint Ordinance of the Ministry of Education, Ministry of the Interior and Safety, and Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport".
In Article 12-2 (2), "Joint Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety, Ministry of Health and Welfare, and Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport in consultation with the Minister of Public Safety and Security" shall be changed to "Joint Ordinance of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety, Ministry of Health and Welfare, and Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport".
(120) through (382) Omitted.
Article 6 Omitted.

ADDENDA <No. 14911, Oct. 24, 2017>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation: Provided, That the amended provisions of Article 2 (26) and Article 96 shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation.
Article 2 (Example of Application regarding Special Traffic Safety Compulsory Education) The amended provisions of Article 73 (2) shall apply starting from persons who receive a driver's license revocation or suspension disposition after the enforcement of this Act.
Article 3 (Interim Measures regarding Persons Engaged in Driving of Emergency Vehicles) A person engaged in the driving of an emergency vehicle at the time of enforcement of this Act who must receive education on safety of emergency vehicles, etc. according to the amended provisions of Article 73 (4) shall receive it within one year from the enforcement date of this Act.

ADDENDA <No. 15364, Feb. 9, 2018>
This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation.

ADDENDA <No. 15530, Mar. 27, 2018>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force one year after the date of its promulgation: Provided, That the amended provisions of the following each subparagraph shall enter into force from the date prescribed in each subparagraph.
1. Articles 13-2 (4) 1, 49 (1) 4 and 6, and 139 (1) 11: The date of its promulgation (matters regarding the introduction of trams in Article 49 (1) 6 shall be one year after the date of its promulgation)
2. Articles 34-3, 44, 47, 48, 50 (1), (2), (4), and (8), 53, 67, 93 (1), 98-2, 148-2 (1), 156 (1), (11), and (12), 160 (2) 2, 161 (1) 2, and Article 73 (1) 3-2 of Act No. 14911, the Partial Amendment to the Road Traffic Act: Six months after the date of its promulgation (Articles 44, 47, 48, 148-2 (1), and matters regarding the introduction of trams in Article 156 (1) shall be one year after the date of its promulgation)
3. Article 140 of Act No. 14911, the Partial Amendment to the Road Traffic Act: April 25, 2018
4. Article 87 and Article 73 (5) of Act No. 14911, the Partial Amendment to the Road Traffic Act: January 1, 2019
Article 2 (Interim Measures regarding Renewal of Driver's License and Regular Aptitude Test for Persons 75 Years of Age or Older) For a person who obtained a driver's license before the enforcement of the amended provisions of Article 87 (1), the period of the first renewal of the driver's license or regular aptitude test after the enforcement of the same amended provisions shall follow previous provisions.
Article 3 (Example of Application regarding Restriction on Issuance of International Driver's License) The amended provisions of Article 98-2 shall also apply to cases where a person who intends to be issued an international driver's license has fines or negligence fines imposed for violations committed before the enforcement of the same amended provisions.
Article 4 (Amendment of Other Laws) (1) Part of the Tourism Promotion Act shall be amended as follows:
In the first sentence of Article 74 (3), "vehicles and horses" shall be changed to "vehicles, horses, or trams".
(2) Part of the Traffic Safety Act shall be amended as follows:
In Article 2 (1) (a), "vehicles and horses" shall be changed to "vehicles, horses, or trams".
(3) Part of the Special Act on the Development of Enterprise Cities shall be amended as follows:
In the first sentence of Article 34-2 (2) 3, "vehicles and horses" shall be changed to "vehicles, horses, or trams".
(4) Part of the Special Act on the Improvement of Disaster-Prone Areas and Resettlement Measures shall be amended as follows:
In Article 22 (2) 2 (a), "vehicles and horses" shall be changed to "vehicles, horses, or trams".
(5) Part of the Special Act on the Establishment of Jeju Special Self-Governing Province and the Development of Free International City shall be amended as follows:
In the main sentence of Article 434 (6), "vehicles and horses" shall be changed to "vehicles, horses, or trams", and in the proviso of the same paragraph, "pedestrians or vehicles and horses" shall be changed to "pedestrians, vehicles, horses, or trams".
(6) Part of the Restriction of Special Taxation Act for Regulatory Free Zones for Specialized Regional Development shall be amended as follows:
In Article 22 (1), "vehicles and horses" shall be changed to "vehicles, horses, or trams".

ADDENDA <No. 15629, Jun. 12, 2018>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force one year after the date of its promulgation.
Article 2 (Example of Application regarding Installation and Management of Traffic Safety Facilities) The amended provisions of Article 3 (2) shall apply starting from traffic safety facilities newly installed after the enforcement of this Act or traffic safety facilities re-installed to replace existing traffic safety facilities.

ADDENDA <No. 15807, Oct. 16, 2018>
This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation.

ADDENDA <No. 16037, Dec. 24, 2018>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation.
Article 2 (Example of Application regarding Prohibition of Driving in Intoxicated State, etc.) The amended provisions of Article 82 (2) and Article 93 (1) 2 shall apply starting from persons who violate Article 44 (1) or (2) for the first time after the enforcement of this Act. In such cases, the number of violations shall be calculated starting from violations occurring after June 30, 2001.
Article 3 (Amendment of Other Laws) (1) Part of the Court Organization Act shall be amended as follows:
In Article 32 (1) 3 (g), "Article 148-2 (1) and (2) 1" shall be changed to "Article 148-2 (1), (2), paragraph (3) 1 and 2 of the same Article".
(2) Part of the Act on Use of Electronic Documents in Summary Proceedings, etc. shall be amended as follows:
In Article 3 (1) 1, "Article 148-2 (2)" shall be changed to "Article 148-2 (3)".

ADDENDA <No. 16652, Nov. 26, 2019> (Act on the Establishment of Korea Asset Management Corporation, etc.)
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation.
Article 2 (Amendment of Other Laws) (1) through (14) Omitted.
(15) Part of the Road Traffic Act shall be amended as follows:
In Article 161 (2), "Act on the Efficient Disposal of Non-performing Assets, etc. of Financial Companies and the Establishment of Korea Asset Management Corporation" shall be changed to "Act on the Establishment of Korea Asset Management Corporation, etc.".
(16) through (21) Omitted.
Article 3 Omitted.

ADDENDA <No. 16830, Dec. 24, 2019>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation: Provided, That the amended provisions of Article 12 (4) and (5), and Article 82 (1) 7 shall enter into force three months after the date of its promulgation.
Article 2 (Interim Measures regarding Disqualification for Driver's License) The amended provisions of Article 82 (1) 7 shall not apply to persons who passed all or part of the driver's license examination pursuant to Article 83 (1) before the enforcement of the same amended provisions.

ADDENDA <No. 17311, May 26, 2020>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation.
Article 2 (Valid Period regarding Duties of Drivers of Child School Buses without Guardians on Board) The amended provisions of Article 53-5 shall be valid for two years from the enforcement date of this Act.
Article 3 (Example of Application regarding Duties of Operators, etc. of Child School Buses) The amended provisions of Article 53 (3) shall apply to child school buses operated by the Early Childhood Education Promotion Institute, alternative schools, and foreign schools under Article 2 (23) (a), the private teaching centers under (c) of the same subparagraph, and the facilities under (e) through (j) of the same subparagraph starting from the day two years have passed from the enforcement of this Act.
Article 4 (Example of Application regarding Provision of Information on Violations by Child School Buses) The amended provisions of Article 53-4 shall apply starting from accidents occurring after the enforcement of this Act.
Article 5 (Special Case for Sports Education Business) The amended provisions of Article 53 (3) shall apply to persons who operate child school buses at sports education business facilities according to the Act on the Installation and Utilization of Sports Facilities amended by Act No. 17267 starting from the day two years have passed from the enforcement of this Act. In such cases, the amended provisions of Article 53-5 shall apply to drivers of child school buses operated at sports education business facilities for two years from the enforcement date of this Act.
Article 6 (Interim Measures regarding Report on Child School Buses) A person who operates an automobile used for child commuting, etc. at the time of enforcement of this Act and has not reported it as a child school bus shall report according to Article 52 within six months after the enforcement of this Act.

Article 7 (Interim Measures regarding Safety Education for Child School Buses) A guardian who accompanies a child school bus according to previous provisions at the time of enforcement of this Act shall receive new safety education pursuant to Article 53-3 (2) 1 within six months after the enforcement of this Act.
Article 8 (Amendment of Other Laws)
(1) Part of the Act on the Establishment and Operation of Private Teaching Institutes and Extracurricular Lessons shall be amended as follows:
In Article 16 (3), "Articles 53, 53-2, and 53-3 of the Road Traffic Act" shall be changed to "Articles 53, 53-3, and 53-5 of the Road Traffic Act".
(2) Part of the Early Childhood Education Act shall be amended as follows:
In Article 30 (1), "Articles 53, 53-2, and 53-3 of the Road Traffic Act" shall be changed to "Articles 53 and 53-3 of the Road Traffic Act".

ADDENDA <No. 17371, Jun. 9, 2020>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation: Provided, That the amended provisions of Article 64 (6-2) and (6-3) shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation.
Article 2 (Example of Application regarding Speed Violations Exceeding 100 km/h) The amended provisions of Article 93 (1) 5-3 and Article 151-2 (2) regarding violations of Article 17 (3) shall apply starting from violations first occurring after the enforcement of this Act.

ADDENDA <No. 17514, Oct. 20, 2020>
This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation: Provided, That the amended provisions of Article 32 (8), Article 34-2, and Article 73 (2) 5 shall enter into force one year after the date of its promulgation.

ADDENDA <No. 17689, Dec. 22, 2020> (Act on the Organization and Operation of National Police and Self-Governing Police)
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force on January 1, 2021.
Articles 2 through 6 Omitted.
Article 7 (Amendment of Other Laws) (1) through (29) Omitted.
(30) Part of the Road Traffic Act shall be amended as follows:
In Article 2 (32) (d), Article 4-2 (1), Article 6 (1) first and latter sentences, (3), Article 10 (1), Article 12 (4), Article 13 (4) 5, Article 14 (1) first and latter sentences, (2) proviso, Article 15 (1), Article 15-2 (1), Article 16 (1) part other than each subparagraph first sentence, Article 17 (2) part other than each subparagraph and subparagraph 2 of the same paragraph, Article 18 (2), Article 22 (3) 4, Article 25 (2) proviso, Article 28 (1) and (2) proviso, Article 31 (1) 5 and (2) 2, Article 32 (7), Article 33 (2) (b) and subparagraph 3 of the same Article, Article 34-2, Article 39 (6), Article 41 (3) main sentence, Article 43, Article 49 (1) 13, Article 68 (3) 7, Article 73 (3) part other than each subparagraph, Article 74 (1), (2) part other than each subparagraph, (3) and (4), Article 76 (5), Article 77 (2), Article 78, Article 79 (1) part other than each subparagraph main sentence, (2), Article 80 (1) main sentence, (2) part other than each subparagraph first sentence, (3) and (4), Article 83 (1) part other than each subparagraph proviso, Article 84-2 (1), Article 85 (2), (3) and (4), Article 86, Article 87 (1) part other than each subparagraph, Article 87-2 (1), (2) and (3), Article 91 (1) part other than each subparagraph main sentence, Article 93 (1) part other than each subparagraph main sentence, (20), paragraph (2) of the same Article, (3) and (4) main sentence of the same Article, Article 94 (1) and (2), Article 95 (1) part other than each subparagraph and paragraph (3) of the same Article, Article 97 (1) part other than each subparagraph, (2) and (3), Article 98 (1), Article 98-2 main sentence, Article 99 first sentence, Article 100 (1) and (2), Article 104 (1) part other than each subparagraph, (2) part other than each subparagraph and (3), Article 106 (4) part other than each subparagraph main sentence, Article 107 (4) part other than each subparagraph main sentence, Article 108 (1), Article 109 (1) part other than each subparagraph first sentence, Article 110 (4), Article 112, Article 113 (1) part other than each subparagraph main sentence, (2) part other than each subparagraph, (3) part other than each subparagraph and (4), Article 114, Article 115 (1) part other than each subparagraph, Article 137 (2), (3) and (4), Article 137-2 (1) and (2), Article 139 (1) part other than each subparagraph proviso, Article 141 (1), (2) part other than each subparagraph first and latter sentences, (4) 3, Article 145-2, Article 147 (1), (3), (4) and (5), Article 156 (5), Article 161 (1) 1, and paragraph (2) of the same Article, "Commissioner of a Local Police Agency" shall be changed to "Commissioner of a City/Do Provincial Police Agency" respectively.
In Article 5 (1) 1, "national police officer" shall be changed to "police officer", and in subparagraph 2 of the same paragraph, "national police officer and self-governing police officer (hereinafter referred to as 'police officer')" shall be changed to "police officer (including self-governing police officers; the same shall apply hereinafter)", and in paragraph (2) of the same Article, "national police officer/self-governing police officer" shall be changed to "police officer".
(31) through (53) Omitted.
Article 8 Omitted.

ADDENDA <No. 17891, Jan. 12, 2021>
This Act shall enter into force four months after the date of its promulgation: Provided, That the amended provisions of the following each subparagraph shall enter into force from the date prescribed in each subparagraph.
1. Articles 30, 50 (4), Article 93 (1) part other than each subparagraph proviso regarding revocation of driver's licenses obtained by false or other fraudulent means, subparagraphs 8 and 8-2 of the same paragraph, and Article 158-2: The date of its promulgation
2. Article 34-2, Article 93 (1) part other than each subparagraph proviso regarding revocation/suspension of driver's licenses at the request of the head of a relevant administrative agency, and Article 94-2: Six months after the date of its promulgation
3. Article 34-2 of Act No. 17514, the Partial Amendment to the Road Traffic Act: October 21, 2021

ADDENDA <No. 18491, Oct. 19, 2021>
This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation: Provided, That the amended provisions of Article 82 (2), Article 88 (1), Article 92 (1), Article 96, Article 97, Article 138 (1), Article 152, Article 154, and Article 156 (13) shall enter into force one year after the date of its promulgation.

ADDENDA <No. 18522, Nov. 30, 2021> (Act on Fire-Fighting Facility Installation and Management)
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force one year after the date of its promulgation. <Proviso omitted>
Articles 2 through 13 Omitted.
Article 14 (Amendment of Other Laws) (1) through (15) Omitted.
(16) Part of the Road Traffic Act shall be amended as follows:
In Article 32 (6) (b), "Act on Fire-Fighting Facility Installation and Maintenance and Safety Control" shall be changed to "Act on Fire-Fighting Facility Installation and Management".
(17) through (54) Omitted.
Article 15 Omitted.

ADDENDA <No. 18741, Jan. 11, 2022>
This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation.

ADDENDA <No. 19158, Jan. 3, 2023>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation: Provided, That the amended provisions of Article 148-2 (1) and (2) shall enter into force three months after the date of its promulgation.
Article 2 (Example of Application regarding Penalties) The amended provisions of Article 148-2 (1) shall also apply to persons who were sentenced to a punishment of a fine or heavier for violating Article 44 (1) or (2) and for whom the sentence was confirmed before the enforcement of this Act, and who again violate paragraph (1) or (2) of the same Article after the enforcement of this Act.

ADDENDA <No. 19357, Apr. 18, 2023>
This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation: Provided, That the amended provisions of Article 12-4 of Act No. 19158, the Partial Amendment to the Road Traffic Act, shall enter into force on January 1, 2024.

ADDENDA <No. 19745, Oct. 24, 2023>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force one year after the date of its promulgation: Provided, That the amended provisions of Article 2 (23) shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation.
Article 2 (Example of Application regarding Conditional Driver's License for Installation of Alcohol-Ignition Interlock) The amended provisions of Article 80-2 shall apply starting from persons whose driver's license was revoked by again violating Article 44 (1) or (2) after the enforcement of this Act within five years from the date of violating the previous Article 44 (1) or (2).

ADDENDA <No. 19841, Dec. 26, 2023> (Resident Registration Act)
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force one year after the date of its promulgation. <Proviso omitted>
Article 2 Omitted.
Article 3 (Amendment of Other Laws) (1) through (3) Omitted.
(4) Part of the Road Traffic Act shall be amended as follows:
In Article 87-2 (1), "resident registration card" shall be changed to "resident registration card (including mobile resident registration cards)".
(5) through (13) Omitted.

ADDENDA <No. 20155, Jan. 30, 2024>
This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation: Provided, That the amended provisions of Articles 85-2 and 85-3 of Act No. 19745, the Partial Amendment to the Road Traffic Act, shall enter into force on October 25, 2024.

ADDENDA <No. 20167, Jan. 30, 2024> (Korea Road Traffic Authority Act)
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation.
Articles 2 through 6 Omitted.
Article 7 (Amendment of Other Laws) (1) Part of the Road Traffic Act shall be amended as follows:
In Article 12-4 (3), "Road Traffic Authority" shall be changed to "Korea Road Traffic Authority according to the Korea Road Traffic Authority Act (hereinafter referred to as 'Korea Road Traffic Authority')".
In Article 74 (2) 2, "Road Traffic Authority according to Articles 120 and 121" shall be changed to "Korea Road Traffic Authority".
In Article 83 (1) part other than each subparagraph main sentence, "Road Traffic Authority according to Article 120" shall be changed to "Korea Road Traffic Authority", and in the proviso of the same part, "Road Traffic Authority" shall be changed to "Korea Road Traffic Authority", and in paragraph (2) first sentence of the same Article, "Road Traffic Authority" shall be changed to "Korea Road Traffic Authority".
In Article 84 (3) first sentence, "Road Traffic Authority" shall be changed to "Korea Road Traffic Authority".
In Article 84-2 (1), "Road Traffic Authority" shall be changed to "Korea Road Traffic Authority".
In Article 87 (2) part other than each subparagraph, "Road Traffic Authority" shall be changed to "Korea Road Traffic Authority".
In Article 88 (1), "Road Traffic Authority" shall be changed to "Korea Road Traffic Authority".
In Article 90 part other than each subparagraph, "Road Traffic Authority" shall be changed to "Korea Road Traffic Authority".
Chapter 11 (Articles 120 through 125, 129, 129-2, 129-3, 130 through 132, 134, and 136) shall be deleted.
In Article 137 (2), "Authority" shall be changed to "Korea Road Traffic Authority", and in paragraph (3) of the same Article, "Authority" shall be changed to "Korea Road Traffic Authority", and in paragraph (4) of the same Article, "Authority" shall be changed to "Korea Road Traffic Authority", and in paragraph (5) of the same Article, "Authority" shall be changed to "Korea Road Traffic Authority".
In Article 139 (1) part other than each subparagraph proviso, "Authority" shall be changed to "Korea Road Traffic Authority" respectively, and in paragraph (2) part other than each subparagraph of the same Article, "Authority" shall be changed to "Korea Road Traffic Authority".
Article 141 (4) shall be deleted.
In Article 147 (5), "Authority" shall be changed to "Korea Road Traffic Authority", and in paragraph (6) of the same Article, "Authority" shall be changed to "Korea Road Traffic Authority".
Article 150 (7) shall be deleted.
(2) Omitted.
Article 8 Omitted.

ADDENDA <No. 20270, Feb. 13, 2024>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation.
Article 2 (Example of Application regarding Disqualification for Traffic Safety Education Instructors, Specialized School Instructors, and Functional Examiners) The amended provisions of Article 76 (3) 2 (b) through (d), Article 106 (3) 1, and Article 107 (3) 2 shall apply starting from persons punished for crimes occurring after the enforcement of this Act: Provided, That for persons who violate Article 3 (1) of the Act on Special Cases concerning the Settlement of Traffic Accidents or Article 5-3 of the Act on the Aggravated Punishment of Specific Crimes, previous provisions shall prevail.
Article 3 (Example of Application regarding Revocation/Suspension of Driver's License) The amended provisions of Article 93 (1) 11 shall apply starting from cases where a person who has obtained a driver's license commits a crime under Articles 8 through 10 of the Special Act on the Prevention of Insurance Fraud by using a motor vehicle, etc. as a tool or place for the crime after the enforcement of this Act.
Article 4 (Interim Measures regarding Revocation Disposition of Qualification for Specialized School Instructors and Functional Examiners) Regarding revocation dispositions of qualification for crimes committed before the enforcement of this Act, previous provisions shall prevail.

ADDENDA <No. 20375, Mar. 19, 2024>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation: Provided, That Article 56-3 shall enter into force one year after the date of its promulgation.
Article 2 (Interim Measures regarding Matters to be Observed by Autonomous Vehicle Test Drivers) A person driving an autonomous vehicle that has obtained a temporary operation license at the time of enforcement of this Act who has not received traffic safety education shall receive traffic safety education within six months after the enforcement of the same amended provisions notwithstanding the amended provisions of Article 56-3.

ADDENDA <No. 20544, Dec. 3, 2024>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation.
Article 2 (Example of Application regarding Conditional Driver's License for Installation of Alcohol-Ignition Interlock) The amended provisions of Article 80-2 (1) shall apply starting from cases where a driver's license is revoked for violating Article 44 (5) after the enforcement of this Act.
Article 3 (Example of Application regarding Disqualification for Driver's License) The amended provisions of Article 82 (2) shall apply starting from violations of Article 44 (5) after the enforcement of this Act.
Article 4 (Example of Application regarding Revocation/Suspension of Driver's License) The amended provisions of Article 93 (1) shall apply starting from violations of Article 44 (5) after the enforcement of this Act.

ADDENDA <No. 20647, Jan. 7, 2025>
This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation.

ADDENDA <No. 20677, Jan. 21, 2025> (Telecommunications Business Act)
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation. <Proviso omitted>
Articles 2 through 5 Omitted.
Article 6 (Amendment of Other Laws) (1) Part of the Road Traffic Act shall be amended as follows:
In Article 85-2 (1), "Article 2 (4) of the Act on the Improvement of the Distribution Structure of Mobile Communication Terminal Devices" shall be changed to "Article 2 (20) of the Telecommunications Business Act".
(2) through (6) Omitted.

ADDENDA <No. 20864, Apr. 1, 2025>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force one year after the date of its promulgation.
Article 2 (Example of Application regarding Disqualification for Driver's License) The amended provisions of Article 82 (2) shall apply starting from violations of the amended provisions of Article 45 (2) after the enforcement of this Act.
Article 3 (Example of Application regarding Revocation/Suspension of Driver's License) The amended provisions of Article 93 (1) shall apply starting from violations of the amended provisions of Article 45 (2) after the enforcement of this Act.
Article 4 (Example of Application regarding Penalties) The amended provisions of Article 148-2 (4) through (6) shall apply starting from violations of the amended provisions of Article 45 (1) or (2) after the enforcement of this Act.

ADDENDA <No. 21016, Aug. 14, 2025>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force on January 1, 2026.
Article 2 (Interim Measures regarding Renewal Period of Driver's License) Where a person issued a driver's license before the enforcement of this Act renews and is issued a driver's license for the first time after the enforcement of this Act, he/she shall follow one of the following renewal periods:
1. The renewal period of a driver's license according to the amended provisions of Article 87 (1) 1 and 2;
2. The renewal period of a driver's license according to the previous Article 87 (1) 1 and 2.

ADDENDA <No. 21246, Dec. 30, 2025>
This Act shall enter into force six months after the date of its promulgation: Provided, That the amended provisions of Article 2 (35) and Article 45 shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation, and the amended provisions of Article 45 (1) of Act No. 20864, the Partial Amendment to the Road Traffic Act, shall enter into force on April 2, 2026.
